  Case Number:  23STCV21780    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki

Department 58

Hearing Date:             June 6,
2024
Case Name:                Hernandez
et al. v. Ayuzo et al.
Case No.:                    23STCV21780
Motion:                       Petitions
to Approve Compromise of Pending Action on Behalf of a Minor 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Luis Hernandez
Opposing Party:          None

Tentative Ruling:      The
petitions to approve compromise of pending action on behalf of a minor are granted.


             
            This is a habitability case. Plaintiffs Luis Hernandez, Araceli Cortes,
Alejandra Gonzalez, Melanie Arcos (a minor), Nathan Godines (a minor), and
Lianny Hernandez (a minor) sued Defendants Medhi Shahpoury Arani, individually
and as Trustee of the Mehdi Shahpoury Arani Living Trust, Hahpoury Arani Living
Trust, CGI+ Real Estate Investments Strategies dba Timing Bliss, LLC, Bandy V.
Reddy, Ka Vitha M. Reddy, and Ahmad Bdeiwi for (1.) breach of implied warranty
of habitability, (2.) quiet enjoyment, (3.) negligent nuisance, (4.) negligent
infliction of emotional distress, (5.) negligence maintenance of the premises,
(6.) intentional nuisance, and (7.) intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
            
            Plaintiffs have settled this case
with Defendants for $145,000. Plaintiff/Petitioner Luis Hernandez now seeks approval of a compromise
of the claims on behalf of minors, Plaintiffs
Melanie Arcos, Nathan Godines, and Lianny Hernandez.

 
Discussion
 
            Court approval is
required for all settlements of a minor’s claim. (Prob. Code, §§ 3500, 3600, et
seq.; Code Civ. Proc., § 372.) California Rules of Court, rule 7.950
provides that a petition “must be verified by the petitioner and must contain a
full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the reasonableness
of the compromise.” The Petition must be filed on Judicial Council Form
MC-350 and must be fully completed. 
 
            The Petition is properly filed on the Judicial Council form
and is verified. Petitioner has also submitted the requisite attachments with
the Petition.  
            
            Of
the $145,000 in settlement funds, $15,000 will be allocated for the
claims of minor Plaintiffs Melanie Arcos, Nathan Godines, and Lianny Hernandez
($5,000.00 for each minor).  Plaintiffs Luis Hernandez, Araceli
Cortes, and Alejandra Gonzalez will each receive $43,333.33. This amount compensates minor Plaintiffs for their emotional
injuries suffered from the uninhabitable living conditions, including “[f]ear,
anxiety, insomnia, loss of appetite, nausea, fear for the health and safety for
self and family members.”  
 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel seeks attorney fees in the amount of $1,250 from each minor Plaintiff
claimant, which is 25% of the settlement amount. (See Pets., ¶¶ 13-15.) Counsel’s
declaration supports the factors of reasonableness under California Rules of
Court, rule 7.955(b). In support, he provides a declaration of tasks and
services rendered during the course of this case. (Lloreda Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Upon
consideration of those facts, the Court finds that the amount of $1,250 is
reasonable.  The Court understands that
each child will receive a net amount of $3,750.
            Petitioner
also seeks to deposit the funds in a blocked account. (Proposed Orders, ¶ 5(b);
Attach., 18(b)2.) The Court concurs. Plaintiff and others with responsibility
for the children are charged with safeguarding this fund until the children are
adults, and may not access it unless for a specific medical or educational purpose
for the child.
Petitioner
has satisfied all of procedural and substantive requirements. Therefore,
the petition is granted.  