 Case Number:  23SMCV02379    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action in
the cross-complaint.  The motion to
strike is DENIED.  The request to strike
the opposition to the motion to strike or to continue the hearing will be
GRANTED to the extent of continuing the hearing if cross-defendant wants to
press the point.
 
The complaint in this case alleges that plaintiff, Cause
Communications (“Cause”) was running a program for defendant’s benefit, which
it did from year to year.  The program
was called “We Rise.”  There was a
contract that went through We Rise 2022, but not after that.  The We Rise event did take place in 2022, and
defendant, California Mental Health Services Authority (“CalMHSA”) paid much of
the promised amount, though Cause alleges not all (CalMHSA says it has paid in
full).  Negotiations for a renewal, however,
faltered.  Cause sent CalMHSA an invoice
for $400,000 purportedly for work done under the contract, which CalMHSA did
not pay.  Cause sued for that and certain
other alleged breaches.  CalMHSA filed a
cross-complaint against Cause, which is the subject of the demurrer.  The primary thrust of the cross-complaint is
that Cause’s $400,000 invoice was a false claim.  According to CalMHSA, the invoice purported
to be for contract work pertaining to We Rise 2022, but in fact it was for work
that the contract did not cover, either because it was not for We Rise 2022 or
because it was outside the agreed upon things for which CalMHSA was obligated
to pay.  Cause demurs to the entire
complaint on standing grounds.  CalMHSA
opposes.  The request for judicial notice
is DENIED as unnecessary.
 
A violation of the False Claims Act occurs when a person
submits a claim to a California government agency that is false or
fraudulent.  However, not just anyone can
bring such a claim.  Primary authority to
investigate false claims lies with the California Attorney General.  (Gov’t Code sec. 12652.)  But that said, either the Attorney General or
“The prosecuting authority of a political subdivision” can investigate as well
and “the prosecuting authority may bring a civil action” under the Act.  Alternatively, a False Claims Act case can be
brought as a qui tam action—that is an action brought by a person other
than the prosecuting agency.  However, in
that sense, the qui tam plaintiff has to meet various procedural
requirements.  The qui tam
plaintiff, if successful, is entitled to compensation in the form of a portion
of the money recovered.
 
Cause asserts that CalMHSA is not a “prosecuting authority”
under the Act, and that it is not suing as a qui tam plaintiff.  The latter seems undisputed.  The question is whether CalMHSA can bring the
action in its own name (unlike a qui tam plaintiff).  Where the action is not brought by either a
prosecuting authority or a qui tam plaintiff, then the action must be
dismissed.  (Los Angeles Memorial
Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803.)  Thus, the question comes down to whether
CalMHSA is a prosecuting authority. 
Normally, it is pretty easy to know who is a prosecuting authority.  It is the California Attorney General, a
District Attorney, a City Attorney, or a County Counsel.  But others might be prosecuting authorities
as well.  Specifically, the term is
defined in the Act as “the county counsel, city attorney, or other local
government official charged with investigating, filing, and conducting civil
legal proceedings on behalf of, or in the name of, a particular political subdivision.”  (Gov’t Code section 12650 subd. (8).)  Thus, the nub of the issue is whether CalMHSA
is charged with investigating, filing, and conducting civil legal proceedings
on behalf of, or in the name of, itself.
 
No one disputes that CalMHSA is a governmental authority and
can be the subject of a False Claims action. 
It is a Joint Powers Authority, meaning it is an agency set up by law
and run by a combination of governmental entities exercising joint powers, and
the thrust of the demurrer seems to concede that it is a political
subdivision.  But that does not answer
the question.   Cause says that CalMHSA
lacks standing because the Act was not designed to allow governmental agencies
the ability to hire private counsel to sue. 
Other than saying so, though, it is far from intuitively obvious why
such would be the case.  CalMHSA cites Fassberg
Construction Co. v. Housing Authority of City of Los Angeles (2004) 152
Cal.App.4th 720.  There, the LA Housing
Authority brought a cross action under the Act alleging the plaintiff had
submitted a false claim.  The Court of
Appeal never discussed the standing issue, but it certainly did not dismiss the
case on the basis of a lack of standing. 
Because jurisdiction, which includes standing, is at issue in every
case, one might argue that this case stands for the proposition that an agency
can bring an action under the Act in its own name, although the argument is
hardly a strong one given that the opinion never addresses the question head
on.  CalMHSA also cites to Graham v.
Tulare Area School Benefit Authority, E.D. Cal. March 22, 2005) 2005 WL
8176430, a federal case that held that a joint powers authority is a political
subdivision and can sue under the Act, and Sacramento Regional Public Safety
Communications Center v. Tyler Technologies, Inc. (E.D. Cal. March 19,
2019) 2019 WL 1255252, which stands for the same proposition.
 
The federal authorities are somewhat persuasive to the
court.  Under those cases, the theory was
that the agency to whom the false claim was made can bring the suit.  And that makes some logical sense.  Were the term “prosecuting authority” not
otherwise defined, the court might agree with Cause.  That is because “prosecuting” at least
connotes some sort of criminal jurisdiction. 
But that is not what the definition says.  The definition specifically includes an
organization that can conduct “civil legal proceedings.”  So, for example, take the following
hypothetical: could CalMHSA sue Cause for breach of contract if Cause had
failed to perform?  The court has no
reason to believe that the answer is “no.” 
Or at least Cause has not suggested that such would be the answer.  Indeed, CalMHSA has sued Cause for breach of
contract and Cause has not challenged that cause of action on standing
grounds.  It seems to the court that the
ability to sue for breach of contract and the ability to sue under the Act go
hand in hand.  Either the agency can
bring an action in its own name or it cannot. 
If the former, then the court sees no reason why it cannot sue under the
Act.
 
Of course, it is not written in stone that every agency can
sue in its own name.  Some might very
well not have the authority to retain counsel to bring an action but rather
must rely on some other authority.  By
way of example, there are agencies within the City of Los Angeles that cannot
bring an action directly, but rather must go through the City Attorney.  Those agencies could not bring an action
under the False Claims Act without similarly going through the City
Attorney.  The problem is that the court
has no reason to believe that CalMHSA is such an agency.  The court notes that it would entertain a
MJOP if there is reason to believe that the court is wrong.  Generally, an agency like CalMHSA does not
just spring up.  Rather, there are
authorizing resolutions issued by the powers forming the JPA and those
resolutions create the agency and the agency’s actual powers are specified in
writing.  One would think that those
powers would include, or not include, the right to bring a civil action.  But there is no evidence or argument along
those lines.  Accordingly, the demurrer
on this ground is OVERRULED.  
 
The second ground for the demurrer (going to breach of
contract) is more technical.  Under the
contract, Cause is required to make its records available to CalMHSA as they
relate to performance.  According to
CalMHSA, it repeatedly asked for those records but Cause failed to provide
them—thereby breaching the contract. 
Cause argues that the problem is that notice of the request for those
records was sent to counsel rather than to Cause, as is required by the notice
provisions in the contract.  CalMHSA responds
by saying that, at the time, the parties were in litigation.  Accordingly, it would have been inappropriate
(CalMHSA asserts) for its counsel to make a demand directly to Cause because
that would be an attorney communicating directly with a client that the
attorney knows to be represented.  Cause
counters by saying that CalMHSA could have communicated directly with
Cause—just not through counsel.  (That
does not strike the court as intuitively obvious.  If CalMHSA had made such a request after
consulting with counsel, there could still be an ethical problem.  Counsel cannot get around the ethical rule by
telling the client to call the other client directly.)  Or CalMHSA could have communicated with
Cause’s counsel and asked Cause’s counsel to forward the demand directly to the
client.  The court views this as an
argument only a lawyer could love.  It seems
pretty clear to the court that Cause’s counsel would let the client know—that
is hardly tough logical stretch.  Whether
there was substantial compliance with the contract seems to be a question
ill-suited to demurrer, but to the extent that it is, the court would tend to
agree with CalMHSA.  The notice
requirement in the contract did not contemplate that the parties would already
be in litigation.  Further, sending a
demand to a party’s counsel for documents under the contract seems to be well
calculated to give notice to the other party.
 
Having said that, the court frankly wonders why we are
bothering with this.  If the issue is
that CalMHSA wanted documents it felt it needed to defend against Cause’s
action, it could get them through the demand under the contract or through a
document demand through litigation.  The
fact is that the documents would be obtained either way.  And other than nominal damages it is very
hard for the court to see what the purpose is of this particular alleged
breach.  But, while the court is free to
ponder questions like this, the court is not free to dismiss a cause of action
on such a ground.  The demurrer on this
ground is OVERRULED.
 
CalMHSA objects to the opposition to the motion to strike as
untimely.  It is untimely by a day.  The court will not strike the opposition, but
CalMHSA is entitled to seek more time to reply. 
The court will continue the hearing and will discuss the date with the
parties.  CalMHSA will have until noon
tomorrow to file its reply.