 Case Number:  24SMCV02409    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to expunge a lis pendens and it is here for
the second time.  At the last hearing,
the court continued the matter to allow some additional briefing.  The reader is referred to the tentative
ruling issued on that day for additional background.  
 
Essentially, the complex set of facts are these.  Plaintiff was engaging in construction on
certain property.  The first, and
largest, loan was with First Bridge, which was for over $5 million.  It was (as the name suggests) a bridge
loan.  The terms were interest only for a
relatively short period of time after which the entire principal would become
due in a balloon payment.  The general
view in such loans is that when the construction is done, the owner will take
out a regular mortgage, the proceeds of which will retire the construction
loan.  Plaintiff also took out two other
loans.  The one at issue here was for
$220,000.  What happened was (allegedly)
that plaintiff failed to make the June 2023 and July 2023 interest payments to
First Bridge.  First Bridge did not
declare a default, however.  Defendant
here nonetheless paid First Bridge the sums needed to bring the loan
current.  It then declared a default
against plaintiff, stating that plaintiff had to pay the interest payments to
defendant (about $89,000 or so). 
Plaintiff did not do so, and defendant then foreclosed and sold the
property at a foreclosure sale.  The
notice of sale issued in December 2023, set forth an amount of $575,000, which
defendant explains is the amount needed to retire the two loans that it (or its
affiliates) owned—but not the First Bridge loan.  The property was sold to defendants, which
the court gathers put in a credit bid, and a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale was
issued.  Plaintiff sues, claiming that
the foreclosure was wrongful. 
Specifically, plaintiff asserts that defendant did not have the right to
make a payment to First Bridge in the absence of a noticed default and use that
payment to declare a default against plaintiff. 
In support of its wrongful foreclosure action, plaintiff filed a lis
pendens to put the world on notice that plaintiff was suing to re-acquire
title.
 
A lis pendens is an odd legal construct.  It can be recorded without leave of
court.  Once recorded, it puts the world
on notice that ownership of the property is being litigated.  Thus, one who buys after the lis pendens is
filed runs the risk of having title taken from it and given to the plaintiff in
the lawsuit.  To be sure, the buyer can
sue the seller.  But the buyer will get
only money; not property.  An owner faced
with a lis pendens has a remedy, though. 
The owner can bring a motion to expunge. 
The motion to expunge can be based on either the proposition that the
action does not involve title or that even if the action does involve title
plaintiff cannot show a probability of success. 
A motion to expunge may also be successful if the owner can show that
the plaintiff is adequately protected by a bond.  Conversely, the plaintiff may have to post a
bond to maintain the lis pendens.  Because
a plaintiff can record a lis pendens without leave of court, the showing on
probability of success is unusual.  Not
only is this an evidentiary motion where the court can weigh the evidence, but
plaintiff—the party opposing the motion—has the burden of proof.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 405.32; Howard S.
Wright Construction Co. v. Superior Court (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 314.)
 
One of the principal disputes here is whether defendant’s
notice of default was proper.  Plaintiff
contends that defendant could not declare a default until and unless First
Bridge declared a default.  After all,
plaintiff states (without dispute), that it had made all of the regular
payments to defendant in a timely manner. 
Defendant, however, claims the contrary. 
It says that it was entitled to declare a default if plaintiff was in
default on any loan—not just defendant’s loan.  Further, defendant argues, the default must
be actual, but it need not be declared. 
Thus, from defendant’s point of view, it is of no moment that First
Bridge elected not to declare a default; it was enough that plaintiff had not
made timely payments under that loan whether default was declared or not.  So buckle up, this analysis will require
going into the various loan documents.
 
Defendant contends that the loan documents allow it to
protect its security interest, and the court agrees with that so far as it
goes.  But plaintiff contends that while
defendant can protect its interest, it overstepped here.  As the court stated in its tentative of
August 22, 2024—when this case was last here—there is some issue regarding a
cure.  The loan documents state that if
plaintiff “fails to make any payment or do any act required by this Security
Instrument, or if there is any action or proceeding . . . affecting or
purporting to affect the Mortgaged Property” then defendant may make a payment
to the extent it deems necessary to protect its interest.  (Valsky Decl., Ex. A, par. 10.)  That suggests that plaintiff has made at
least its prima facie showing because plaintiff had not failed to make a
payment under the Security Agreement with the defense and there was no action
pending or threatened.  But it is not so
simple.
 
Defendant points out that there is more to the Deed of Trust
(and related agreements) than just that. 
In fact, defendant contends, there are three options in this paragraph
10 allowing it to make an advance.  Thus,
according to defendant, it may advance payment if (1) plaintiff “fails to make
any payment”; or (2) do any act required by this Security Instrument”; or (3)
if there is any action or proceeding . . . affecting or purporting to affect
the Mortgage Property, [or] this Security Instrument.”  (Suppl. Opp. at p. 2.)  The problem is that paragraph 10 actually
does not enumerate the conditions—it is just one sentence.  Defendant’s reading untethers the payment
obligation from the security instrument, but that is not a necessary reading.
 
But also to the point is paragraph 34 in the Deed of Trust
and the events of default as defined in paragraph 7.1 of the security
instrument.  Paragraph 34 sets forth
acceleration and sale on default.  It
states that if there is an event of default, defendant may accelerate the note
and also pursue other remedies allowed by law. 
Interestingly, though, this paragraph does not mention advancing sums to
others.  Paragraph 7.1 of the security
instrument defines events of default for both the security instrument and the
DOT.  That includes, at 7.1.1, a failure
“to pay any installment of interest and/or principal under the Note or any
other Indebtedness when due and such failure continues for more than 10
days after the date such payment was due and payable.”  (Emphasis added.)  And paragraph 7.1.8, which defines an event
of default if defendant’s interest “is endangered in any manner.”  Paragraph 7.1.12 goes on to add, as another
event of default, the “failure to pay on a timely basis . . . under any note,
deed of trust . . . encumbering or affecting the Collateral and having priority
over the lien” of defendant.  (There is a
debate as to whether the First Bridge loan has priority or not.  Defendant seems to indicate that First Bridge
was in the first position, whereas it is also possible that all three loans
were of equal priority.)
 
Reading paragraph 7.1, it would appear that plaintiff’s
failure to make timely payments to First Bridge would be a default under at
least some of the above-quoted provisions. 
What happens next?  One must look
to paragraph 7.2, which discusses remedies upon default.  That provision states that in the event of
default, defendant “may exercise any remedy provided by any or all Security
Agreements.  In addition, [defendant] may
exercise in respect of any Collateral, in addition to other rights and remedies
provided for herein (or in any Loan Document) or otherwise available to it, all
the rights and remedies of a secured party under the applicable Uniform
Commercial Code (the ‘Code’) whether or not the Code applies to the affected
Collateral . . . without notice except as specified below or by Applicable Law,
sell the Collateral . . . at public or private sale . . . .”
 
Putting all of that together, defendant argues that it was
an event of default for plaintiff not to pay interest as due under the First
Bridge loan and that therefore, defendant could declare a default and sell the
collateral.  Q.E.D. (according to the
defense).  But the court is not so sure.
 
It might well have been a default for plaintiff not to make
the First Bridge interest payments.  But
that does not mean that defendant had the right to advance payments to First
Bridge.  That right comes only in
paragraph 10.  There is a strong reading
of the contract that such a right exists where there is an action or proceeding
that affects the property.  And the court
would be willing to include therein an action preparatory to filing an action
or proceeding—such as were a notice of default issued by First Bridge.  But can defendant advance a sum to First
Bridge when First Bridge has not declared default and has taken no steps to
impair the collateral?
 
This matters because defendant’s notice of default did not
say that the default could be cured by squaring things with First Bridge, which
might well be within 7.1.  Rather, the
Notice of Default by defendant required that plaintiff pay to defendant the
$89,000 that defendant had already advanced to First Bridge.  If defendant did not have the right to
advance the money to First Bridge, then there is a material disconnect between
the default and the requirement to cure it. 

 
Ultimately, this will be a question of contract
interpretation.  So, of course, the court
goes back to general principles. 
California has adopted the objective view of contracts.  We look first to the words on the page (in an
integrated contract, such as the one here). 
If the words are truly unambiguous, then they mean what they mean.  But words are not always unambiguous.  Even in a fully integrated contract, there
may be ambiguities that need to be interpreted using parol evidence.  Indeed, even where the contract appears to be
unambiguous on its face, parol evidence can be used to disclose a latent
ambiguity.  (That is different than some
jurisdictions, where parol evidence is admissible only to resolve a patent
ambiguity.)  Where there is parol, the
court undertakes a familiar two-step process. 
First, the evidence is provisionally admitted concerning the parties’
intentions.  That is done to determine
ambiguity.  If, but only if, the evidence
could lead the court to interpret the contract in a manner to which its words
are reasonably susceptible, then the evidence is admitted.  After all admissible parol evidence is
admitted, the court proceeds to the second step: interpreting the contract.  Contract interpretation is a question of law
solely for the court unless the parol evidence is in dispute—such as where
there is a debate as to whether a particular conversation occurred or what was
said.  In that case, the resolution of
that dispute must be done by the finder of fact.  But absent a dispute as to the parol
evidence, the contract’s interpretation is for the court alone, meaning that
the court can draw whatever reasonable inferences make sense.  (Winet v. Price (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th
1159; Wolf v. Superior Court (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1343.)  At summary judgment, the ability to choose
from conflicting inferences on undisputed parol evidence is a powerful tool for
the court.  And the same is true here
because a motion to expunge a lis pendens is an evidentiary motion.  (The situation is different on demurrer,
where the court cannot consider parol evidence unless it is pled in the
complaint.)  
 
Applying those rules here, the court finds in plaintiff’s
favor, although not overwhelmingly. 
Paragraph 10 does not appear to allow defendant to advance funds in the
event of any event of default—that is just not how the paragraph reads.  This is important because had defendant
simply said there is a notice of default without advancing the funds, it is not
clear to the court what the cure would have been.  (Recall that there are no remedies for
default unless plaintiff failed to cure.) 
It might have been to pay First Bridge directly, or it might have been
to get a formal agreement that First Bridge was not going to declare a default
or do anything to impair the collateral or have First Bridge agree to waive the
failure to pay in return for some other concession (since First Bridge did have
other tools at hand).  At this stage, the
court cannot tell.
 
On balance, the court believes plaintiff has made the
necessary showing and the motion to expunge is DENIED.  However, this is without prejudice to renewal
upon a more detailed factual showing as discovery comes in.
 
The court will also keep open a request for a bond.  At present, there is no basis to impose a
bond on plaintiff.  But the court could
see one down the road.  Defendant may be
able to show carrying costs, property taxes, or other costs and expenses it
will have to incur as this litigation goes forward.  It is appropriate for plaintiff to post a
bond sufficient to cover those costs so that, if the defense prevails, it is
not out of pocket those sums.  This is
especially true given that it is hard for the defense to sell or lease the
property given the lis pendens (after all, that is the whole point).  Further, defendant might be able to make a
showing that the property value will decline. 
Because there is no evidence on that in this record, the court is not at
present going to impose more than a nominal bond of $5000.  But the court notes that the amount will
almost certainly go up on a proper showing.
 
The court notes that a ruling on a lis pendens motion is not
a final ruling on the merits.  And the
court also emphasizes that this ruling is without prejudice to a motion for
summary judgment that might be brought by the defendant.  It may seem at first blush that this ruling
would preclude such a motion, but the court does not think so.  As set forth above, to the extent that the
parol evidence is not in dispute (and there might not be any parol evidence at
all), the question of interpretation is a question of law for the court, and
the court can choose from amongst competing inferences, even on summary
judgment.  In a summary judgment
presentation—with a separate statement and perhaps a fuller (and in one brief
rather than multiple briefs) walkthrough of the documents and how they work,
the court would come to a different conclusion. 
At least the court is not precluding such a scenario, and the court
would not entertain an argument in opposition that the issue has already been
decided.
 
Finally, both sides seek sanctions.  Defendant cannot get sanctions because the
motion was denied.  Plaintiff’s request
is DENIED because the court believes that defendant acted with substantial
justification.