  Case Number:  19SMCV02145    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  I This is a case filed against a contractor.  Plaintiff alleges various construction
problems and seeks damages.  The
complaint was originally brought by Michael Amin in his individual
capacity.  It was later amended to add
Michael in his capacity as trustee of his trust and also to add Michael wife,
Shirin, as the trustee of her trust, which owns 5% of the property.  (The court uses first names to differentiate
between Michael and Shirin, who have the same last name.  No disrespect is intended.)  The gist of the demurrer seems to be based on
the statute of limitations.  The court
believes that the argument is that Shirin should have been a plaintiff from the
start—back in 2019.  The failure to name
her means that the statute was not tolled until she was added, which was long
past the three year statute of limitations. 
Plaintiffs allege that this is an attempt by the contractor to find a
loophole and a “gotcha” moment to escape 5% of the damage.  (The court believes that defendant is not
making a similar argument as to Michael because he was suing from the start;
the fact that he is now suing in his individual capacity and as trustee is not
enough to warrant a demurrer.)  The court
notes that defendant also asserts that the complaint is uncertain.  It is not. 
(Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143.)
 
Plaintiff points out that substituting a real party in
interest generally relates back to the original complaint.  And, Shirin asserts, that is all that is
happening here.  She (as trustee of her
trust) is the real party in interest as to 5% of the damage because she (as
trustee of her trust) is the owner of 5% of the property.  
 
In the context of a new plaintiff, whether the addition will
“relate back” to the original filing depends on whether the newly added
plaintiff is enforcing an independent right that imposes a distinct and
different legal obligation against the defendant.  (Engel v. Pech (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th
1227, 1236-1239.)  And indeed, the Engel
case is instructive, as it has an extended discussion on the point.  There, an LLP and one of its partners filed a
malpractice action against an attorney. 
After the partnership lost the case, the attorney filed a new case and,
in an amended complaint, sought to add the partnership back in as an additional
plaintiff.  The Court of Appeal said
no.  The court noted that where the new
plaintiff is enforcing the same right as the existing plaintiff, the relation
back doctrine will apply because it is the same injury and same
instrumentality.  In explaining the rule,
the court noted that this is allowed where the injury alleged is identical—such
as naming a new shareholder in a derivative case (because the corporate entity
gets the recovery either way), or a professional corporation as opposed to the
individual directly.  It is just swapping
the right name for the wrong one; it is the same wrong and same recovery being
prosecuted.  But where the new plaintiff
is asserting a right independent of the existing plaintiff’s right, the
doctrine does not apply and the statute is not tolled until the new plaintiff
is actually added.  The Engel court
concluded that the action by the LLP and the action by the partner were
different and distinct because the attorney owed a separate duty to each.  The court noted that there were “two
potential sets of malpractice claims—one owned by the LLP, and another owned by
Engel.”  The rule of thumb is whether
adding the new plaintiff is nothing more than correcting a misnomer in the
description of the person suing or adding a truly new party.
 
The court believes that under Engel, the defense has
the better of it.  While the underlying
acts by the defendant might well be the same—whatever construction problems
existed related identically in terms of liability to Michael and Shirin given
that the trusts held undivided interests—the fact remains that the plaintiffs
are different people.  Shirin is not the
same person as Michael.  While the court
believes that the addition of Michael as trustee would, and does, relate back,
Shirin is a unique individual.  It is not
a capacity problem—it is a different human problem.  To think of it another way, if Shirin did not
sue ever, the damages would be 95% of the total injury to the property as a
whole; Michael could not recover the full 100%. 
Thus, Shirin is not merely swapping one name for another; she is
bringing a separate claim in her own right—a claim that Michael cannot and
never could prosecute.  That is not due
to a technical issue, but rather is because he was not injured at all to the
extent of Shirin’s ownership.  (The court
wants to be careful here.  There might be
a doctrine under which Michael could recover the full 100% of the injury to the
property; the court has not considered that question.  The court is assuming, but not deciding, that
he could not do so.)
 
The court does not believe that the matter is free from
doubt.  Frankly, this one is thornier (at
least to the court) than it initially appeared. 
But at bottom, each of Michael and Shirin have separate suits.  True, they will almost certainly stand or
fall together, but they are different. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to Shirin. 
The court will inquire of plaintiffs whether there is any purpose in
granting leave to amend.  The court notes
that, because this will result in an order of dismissal as to Shirin if leave
to amend is denied, defendant will be able to appeal this ruling should it so
desire.
 
As to the claim that fraud is not alleged with sufficient
particularity, the court disagrees. 
There is enough here to allow defendants to answer intelligently.  And the complaint alleges that Simzar made
the specific representations.  Finally,
the assertion that it is unclear to whom defendants owed their duty is
unsupported by any authority so it is disregarded.  Accordingly, other than the demurrer as to
Shirin, the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.  This is not the right vehicle to address the
promissory fraud cause of action.  It is
sufficiently pled.