 Case Number:  22VECV02109    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  W YVONNE
JOHNSON, AKA YVONNE MANESH v. SAFEBUILT INSURANCE SERVICES, LLC, et al.
 
motion for leave to file third
amended complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        August 14, 2024                    Trial Date:       N/A
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02109
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Yvonne Johnson aka Yvonne Manesh 
Responding Party:     Defendant
United Specialty Insurance Company   
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Schmitthenner Decl. ¶¶3-4.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Yvonne Johnson brought a
prior action (via a cross-complaint) against defendant United Specialty
Insurance Company’s insured, Arina Builders, who she claimed had damaged her
property. That action resulted in a judgment in plaintiff’s favor for $261,120.
Plaintiff subsequently sought attorney’s fees against the insured, which were
granted. The judgment and the fees were not paid. Plaintiff then brought the
instant suit against the insurance company (United), and Golden State Claims
Adjusters (GSCA), a third party claims administrator, seeking the full amount
of the judgment and attorneys fees. The first six causes of action in the First
Amended Complaint are against United only, for 1) Judgment Creditor’s action
against the Insurer; 2) Failure to Pay a Covered Claim; 3) Unreasonable Failure
to Defend; 4) Bad Faith Failure to Investigate a Claim; 5) Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and 6) Violation of Bus. & Prof.
Code Section 17200, et seq. Plaintiff also stated claims against GSCA and
United for Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation (the Seventh and Eighth
Causes of Action).
 
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff
dismissed United from the 7th and 8th causes of action and dissed GSCA from the
7th and 8th causes of action. Upon sustaining of a demurrer to the FAC,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint for 1) Judgment Creditor’s action
against the Insurer; 2) Breach for Failure to Pay a Covered Claim; 3) Breach of
the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and 4) Violation of Bus. &
Prof. Code Section 17200, et seq. 
 
Plaintiff filed a Third Amended
Complaint on August 15, 2024, adding a cause of action for Bad Faith –
Unreasonable Failure to Defend. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action of the Third Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant United Specialty Insurance
Company (“USIC”) requests this court take judicial notice of the complaint
filed by Glendale Acceptance, LLC in the action of Glendale Acceptance, LLC
v. Yvonne Johnson et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. BC624204
(Exh. A) and USIC policy number SII0503B10568, which was issued to Jeff Davani
dba Arina Builders and effective February 22, 2015, to February 22, 2016 (Exh.
B). 
 
The court GRANTS the request for
judicial notice. (See Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.
App. 4th 743, 754.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
USIC demurs to the third and fourth
causes of action in the Third Amended Complaint on the grounds they are both
barred by the statute of limitations and even if they were not barred, Defendant
had no duty to defendant Plaintiff as an additional insured or provide any
benefits under the policy to Plaintiff as an additional insured. 
 
Statute of Limitations
 
USIC first demurs to the complaint on
the grounds Plaintiff’s two new bad faith causes of action are time barred. In
California, tort remedies for a claim of breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing are governed under a two-year statute of limitations. (CCP §
339; Archdale v. American International Specialty Lines Insurance Co.
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 449, 473.) USIC argues the TAC alleges Plaintiff
tendered her defense to USIC on February 27, 2018, and April 11, 2018, but USIC
failed to respond. (See TAC, ¶ 44, 50.) As a result, the two-year statute of
limitations would have run by April of 2020 at the latest. Even if Plaintiff
were asserting a contractual bad faith claim based on her “additional insured”
theory, USIC contends the four-year statute of limitations on that claim ran in
April of 2022. USIC further argues the new causes of action do not relate back
because the new bad faith claims do not involve the same facts, same injury, or
same instrumentality as the original claims. USIC claims Plaintiff’s new bad
faith claims are premised on new facts, namely Plaintiff’s alleged status as an
additional insured, and a new injury to an entirely different party. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
statute of limitations does not begin to run from the date of tender, rather “an
insurer’s denial of a claim started the statute of limitations running.” (Neff
v. New York Life Ins. Co., (1947) 30, Cal.2d 165.) As a result, the statute
of limitations was tolled because USIC never issued a denial. Moreover,
Plaintiff argues the relation back doctrine is applicable because Plaintiff has
consistently stated, numerous times over, that Plaintiff was an additional
insured under the policy. Moreover, the TAC only elaborates on what was already
provided to USIC in the LETTERS referenced as Exhibits C & D to the TAC. No
new facts have been alleged here, there are no new instrumentalities of injury,
and therefore the relation-back doctrine applies. 
 
The court agrees the new allegations
relate back. As noted by Defendant, “[u]nder the relation-back doctrine, an
amendment relates back to the original complaint if the amendment (1) rests on
the same general set of facts; (2) involves the same injury; and (3) refers to the
same instrumentality." (Pointe San Diego Residential Cmty., L.P. v.
Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265,
277.) However, the doctrine will not apply if “the plaintiff seeks by amendment
to recover upon a set of facts entirely unrelated to those pleaded in the
original complaint.” (Ibid.) “In
determining whether the amended complaint alleges facts that are sufficiently
similar to those alleged in the original complaint, the critical inquiry is
whether the defendant had adequate notice of the claim based on the original
pleading.” (Ibid.) The allegations in the complaint and TAC both allege
Plaintiff USIC acted in bad faith when it failed to pay benefits due under the
insurance policy and suffered a loss covered under the insurance policy. The
TAC only clarifies that Plaintiff was an additional insured under that policy
rather than the insured. 
 
Moreover, the court agrees that “[t]he
statute of limitations for actions on insurance claims is equitably tolled from
the time the insured notifies the insurer of the claim until coverage is
denied.” (Marselis v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 122, 124.)The
denial must be unequivocal. (Migliore v. Mid-Century Ins. Co. (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 592, 604.) Here, however, the allegations are United never responded
to the tender, Plaintiff obtained a judgment in in Glendale Acceptance LLC
v. Yvonne Johnson et al., and in 2022, United offered to pay below the
judgment amount. (TAC ¶¶17-24.) Although not barred on its face, it is
uncertain whether the tolling of the statute of limitations ended or is still
ongoing. 
 
Failure to State a Claim 
 
Defendant argues even if the third and
fourth causes of action are not time barred, the claims would still fail
because USIC had no duty to defend Plaintiff in the underlying action or
provide benefits in the underlying action. Specifically, USIC argues the USIC
policy only provides coverage for claims of bodily injury or property damage
made against the party seeking coverage, and the claims made against Plaintiff
in the underlying action were merely for unpaid money, not bodily injury or
property damage. 
 
The USIC policy provides: We will pay
those sums that the insured becomes legally obligated to pay as “damages” for
“bodily injury” or “property damage” to which this insurance applies. We will
have the right and duty to defend you, the Named Insured, against any “suit”
seeking “damages” to which this insurance applies . . . . (RJN, Exh. B.)  It goes on to define “Property damage” as “Physical
injury to tangible property . . . .” (RJN, Exh. B.) USIC argues the original
complaint in the underlying action by Glendale Acceptance, however, did not
contain any allegations of bodily injury or property damage. As a result, USIC
had no duty to defend Plaintiff. Moreover, the complaint does not clearly
allege what benefits were allegedly withheld from Plaintiff in her capacity as
an additional insured. USIC contends it has already demonstrated there was no
duty to defend and therefore, no duty to provide any policy benefits. 
 
Plaintiff does not address these
contentions in opposition. The court agrees Plaintiff has not alleged facts
sufficient to support a claim for the third or fourth causes of action. Under
the USIC policy, USIC only had a duty to defend for bodily injury or property
damage. As noted by the judicially noticed underlying action, there were no
allegations of bodily injury or physical injury to tangible property. As a
result, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged any duty to defend or provide
benefits in the underlying action. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
 
 