  Case Number:  22VECV01550    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  W SYRUS
PARVIZIAN v. WEST VALLEY UPHOLSTERY, INC., et al.
 
defendant’s
motion to compel compliance with court’s order and for terminating sanctions
 
Date of Hearing:        December
10, 2024                          Trial Date:       April
21, 2025  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01550
 
Moving Party:            Defendants West Valley Upholstery, Inc. and Steven
Whitefield 

Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Syrus Parvizian
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Syrus Parvizian alleges he tripped and fell over a lifted portion of the
sidewalk outside Defendant Whitefield’s property, West Valley Upholstery. On April
3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
Whitefield, West Valley Upholstery Inc., City of Los Angeles, and County of Los
Angeles asserting causes of action for negligence and premises liability. Upon
sustaining the demurrer to the first amended complaint, Plaintiff filed a
second amended complaint on July 19, 2023. 
 
On April 22,
2024, County of Los Angeles was dismissed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Court’s Order and for Terminating Sanctions is
GRANTED, IN PART. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant West Valley Upholstery, Inc.
and Steven Whitefield seek an order compelling Plaintiff to comply with the
court’s discovery order and for sanctions including terminating sanctions
against Plaintiff to dismiss the action filed by Plaintiff. Defendants make the
motion on the grounds Plaintiff failed to serve any discovery responses after
this court issued an order compelling Plaintiff to do so. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 provides that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing
any particular discovery method . . . , the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose . . .  [monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating]
sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process . . . .”  Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.010 provides that “[m]isuses of the discovery process include, but
are not limited to, the following: . . . (d) Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery. . . . (g) Disobeying a court order to
provide discovery. . . .”  
 
Defendant seeks to compel compliance
with the court’s September 4, 2024, Order, which required Plaintiff to produce
further discovery responses, without objection, within 30 days, i.e., October
4, 2024. At the time, the court denied Defendant’s request for terminating
sanctions because the court believed terminating sanctions should be used
sparingly and less severe alternatives should be made first. However,
Plaintiffs have still failed to provide discovery responses and as a result,
Defendant also seeks monetary and terminating sanctions. Plaintiff’s blatant refusal
to comply with the court’s Order is a flagrant abuse of the discovery process
and Defendant maintains anything less than a terminating sanction would
improperly allow Plaintiff to benefit from his own stalling tactics, and is
insufficient to address Plaintiff’s comprehensive misconduct in this case.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff claims they
accidentally only served other counsel the discovery responses after the
court’s Order and have now included their discovery responses. Counsel for
Plaintiff, Mr. Moghtader, asserts he instructed his office to serve discovery
responses pursuant to the court’s September 4, 2024 Order. (Moghtader Decl.
¶3.) However, upon receiving the instant motion, Counsel discovered this office
served responses but neglected to serve Defense Counsel for West Valley
Upholstery, Inc. and Steven Whitefield. (Moghtader Decl. ¶¶4-5.) Mr. Moghtader
has now attached the discovery responses. (Moghtader Decl. ¶6, Exhs. 2, 3, 4,
5.) 
 
However, the discovery responses are
not compliant with this court’s Order. Plaintiff was ordered to produce
responses without objection and all requests for admissions were deemed
admitted. The RFAs contain denials and all of the discovery responses contain
general objections. Accordingly, the motion to compel compliance with the
September 4, 2024 Court Order is GRANTED. 
 
As for Defendant’s request for
terminating sanctions, the court finds they are not warranted at this time. The
request for monetary sanctions is denied without prejudice, as defendants
failed to provide notice of the desired sanction or to support it in the
memorandum of points and authorities and declaration.  