  Case Number:  22STCV29794    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MANBIR DHILLON AKA MONEY MIKE aka MIKEY DANKZ, an individual;
  GOLD GRIZZLY ENTERTAINMENT, a Foreign Company,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
VASSAL BENFORD, an individual; THE BENFORD COMPANY, entity
  unknown; RONALD M. LEBOW, an individual; TBC GROUP, LLC., entity unknown; and
  DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV29794
 Hearing Date:   9/21/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Vassal
  Benford, Ronald M. Lebow, and TBC Group, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
  of Complaint and Stay Proceedings.



 
Background
Plaintiffs Manbir Dhillon aka Money Mike aka Mikey Dankz (Dankz) and Gold
Grizzly Entertainment (Grizzly) sue Defendants Vassal Benford (Benford),
The Benford Company (Benford Co.), Ronald M. Lebow (Lebow), TBC Group, LLC (TBC
Group), and Does 1 through 50 pursuant to a September 13, 2022 Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3)
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Intentional
Misrepresentation, (5) Negligent Misrepresentation, (6) Conversion, and (7)
Unjust Enrichment.
The claims arise from allegations
that, among other things, Dankz (a
music artist), on behalf of Grizzly, and Lebow, on behalf of TBC Group, entered
into a Re Distribution Agreement (Agreement), pursuant to which TBC Group would
use its pre-existing agreements with Animal Head Entertainment (Animal Head)
and Warner Brothers/Tommy Boy Distribution (Warner Bros.) to market and
distribute Dankz’s music releases (collectively, the Project). In exchange for
its work, TBC Group would receive songwriting and publishing rights of those
songs in addition to a share of the producer royalty, as well as up to 25% of
any revenue from the sale of Dankz’s records and all ancillary rights derived
from online and advertising ads. Plaintiffs allege that despite Dankz
transferring $150,000 of his own money to Lebow in connection with the Project,
Defendants never produced the Project, and had no intention of keeping their
promises relating to the same.
On July 28, 2023, Defendants Benford, Lebow, and TBC Group (hereafter referred
to as Defendants to the exclusion of Defendant Benford Co.) moved to compel
arbitration of Plaintiffs’ action and to stay these proceedings.
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed the motion.
On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a supplemental declaration in
support of the opposition.
On September 14, 2023, Defendants replied to the opposition.
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is now
before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings

Procedural Requirements
“A petition to compel arbitration
or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and
1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of
the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)
Here, Defendants’ motion complies
with this rule of court because the motion verbatim states the relevant provisions
of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. (See
Mot., pp. 2-5 [four references to arbitration clause].) Defendants also comply
with the rule by attaching a copy of the Agreement. (Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A.)
Adequacy of Statement of Facts
in Motion
The memorandum supporting a motion must
contain a statement of facts, a concise statement of the law, evidence and
arguments relied on, and a discussion of the statutes, cases, and textbooks
cited in support of the position advanced. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.113,
subd. (b).)
Here, the Court finds—contrary to
Plaintiffs’ argument (Opp’n, pp. 5-6)—that the statement of facts supporting
Defendants’ motion (Mot., pp. 2-4) satisfies this rule of court. The statement
of facts sufficiently apprises the Court of the background for the relief
sought.
Legal Standard 
A party to an arbitration agreement
may seek a court order compelling the parties to arbitrate a dispute covered by
the agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Absent a viable defense to
enforcement, the court must grant the motion if it determines there is an
agreement to arbitrate that has not been rescinded. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; see also Cinel v. Barna (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1389
[“Under section 1281.2, the court shall order a matter to arbitration if it
determines that there is an agreement to arbitrate and (1) the agreement has
not been waived or (2) the agreement has not been revoked”].) Even where the
FAA governs the interpretation of arbitration clauses, California law governs
whether an arbitration agreement has been formed in the first instance. (Baker
v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.) 
The party seeking arbitration has
the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence[.]” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “Once that burden is satisfied, the party
opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense
to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, at
p. 842.) “A party required to prove something by a preponderance of the
evidence ‘need prove only that it is more likely to be true than not true.’
[Citation.] Preponderance of the evidence means ‘“that the evidence on one side
outweighs, preponderates over, is more than, the evidence on the other side,
not necessarily in number of witnesses or quantity, but in its effect on those
to whom it is addressed.”’ [Citations.] In other words, the term refers to
‘evidence that has more convincing force than that opposed to it.’
[Citations.]” (People ex rel. Brown v. Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1549, 1567.)
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court should grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
Nonetheless, California’s policy in favor of arbitration does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation holding that the contractual
terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to the contract
can be ordered to arbitration. (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
175, 185.)
Order Compelling Arbitration and
Staying Proceedings: GRANTED.
I.
Whether Arbitration Agreement
Exists
“Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.)
Defendants seek to compel
arbitration pursuant to an arbitration clause in the Agreement. Defendants
argue that TBC Group is a party to the agreement and that Defendants Benford
and Lebow may invoke the arbitration clause either as agents of TBC Group or
through the doctrine of equitable estoppel. (Mot., pp. 2-3, 5-6; see Mot.,
Lebow Decl., Ex. A, § 8(e).)
The Court briefly notes that the
Agreement was specifically entered by TBC Group and Grizzly and no other
parties to this action. (See Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A.)
In their opposition, Plaintiffs do
not dispute the existence of an arbitration agreement between TBC Group and Grizzly.
Neither do Plaintiffs dispute Benford’s and Lebow’s standing to invoke the
arbitration agreement.
After review, the Court finds that
an arbitration agreement exists between the parties.
An arbitration agreement clearly
exists between the TBC Group and Grizzly. (See Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A,
Introductory Paragraph [agreement is between these parties] & § 8(e)
[arbitration clause] & Signatures [Dankz binds Grizzly, Lebow binds TBC
Group].)
The Court also accepts the argument
that Benford and Lebow may invoke the arbitration clause in the Agreement.
First, “when a plaintiff alleges a
defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement, the
defendant may enforce the agreement even though the defendant is not a party
thereto. [Citations.]” (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605,
614.) Here, the Complaint clearly alleges that “Plaintiffs are informed and
believe and thereon allege that at all relevant times each of the named
Defendants … were the … agents … of each other defendant.” (Complaint, ¶ 8.)
Thus, Benford and Lebow may enforce the Agreement, including its arbitration
clause.
Second, under
the doctrine of equitable estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a
signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) The doctrine applies when the signatory (1)
must rely on the terms of the written agreement containing the arbitration
clause in asserting its claims against the nonsignatory or (2) alleges “substantially interdependent and concerted
misconduct” by the nonsignatory against a signatory and the alleged misconduct is “founded
in or intimately connected with the obligations of the underlying agreement.” (Goldman
v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 218-219.) Here, Plaintiffs’ claims
against Benford and Lebow arise from obligations that were created by the
Agreement. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 29-30 [duty from Lebow to Dankz in relation to
Project], 40 [all Defendants have failed to respond to Plaintiffs’ inquiries on
the Project, breaching the covenant of good faith and fair dealing].) Such
allegations show that the harms allegedly committed by Benford and Lebow are founded
in or intimately connected with the obligations of the Agreement, triggering
equitable estoppel.
Last, and
though not raised by Defendants, the Court finds that the Agreement’s
arbitration clause may be enforced against non-signatory Plaintiff Dankz.
“Under
California law, a nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate under two sets of
circumstances: (1) where the nonsignatory is a third party beneficiary of the
contract containing the arbitration agreement; and (2) where ‘a preexisting
relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the parties to the
arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel the nonsignatory to also
be bound to arbitrate his or her claim.’ [Citation.]” (Crowley Maritime
Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1069-1070
(Crowley).) “The preexisting relationship generally gives the party to
the agreement authority to bind the nonsignatory. Examples of the preexisting
relationship include agency, spousal relationship, parent-child relationship
and the relationship of a general partner to a limited partnership.
[Citations.]” (Crowley, supra, at p. 1070.)
Here, the
Court determines that Plaintiff Dankz is a third-party beneficiary to the
Agreement because the purpose of the Agreement is to produce his music records
and release the same to the public. (Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A, p. 1, Whereas, §
(b) [“TBC intends to distribute the songs and Artist [Plaintiff Dankz] through
its distribution agreement with Animal Head Entertainment and Warner
Bros./Tommy Boy Distribution”].) The Court also determines that the Agreement
contemplates that Grizzly (the signatory) has the authority to bind and act in
favor of Dankz (the artist) insofar as the entire purpose of the Agreement is
to establish terms by which Dankz will need to contractually perform by
creating music for release, and where Grizzly is tasked with paying music
royalties to Dankz. (Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A, § 3.B. [“[Grizzly] shall provide
the recording artist … and Masters satisfactory for release” and “be
responsible for payment of all artist … royalties”].) The Court thus determines
that the circumstances here allow Defendants to invoke the Agreement’s
arbitration clause against Plaintiff Dankz.
II.
Scope of, and Defenses to, the
Arbitration Agreement
“‘[P]arties may agree to have an
arbitrator decide not only the merits of a particular dispute but also
‘“‘gateway’ questions of ‘arbitrability,’ such as whether the parties have
agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy.”’
[Citation.] But ‘[c]ourts should not assume that the parties agreed to
arbitrate arbitrability unless there is “clea[r] and unmistakabl[e]” evidence
that they did so.’ [Citation.] This is a ‘heightened standard,’ and it
‘pertains to the parties’ manifestation of intent, not the agreement’s
validity.’ [Citation.]” (Najarro v. Superior Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
871, 879-880 (Najarro).) 
However, “[c]ourts have held that
‘there is no clear and unmistakable delegation to the arbitrator’ to decide
arbitrability where the contract ‘includes a severability clause stating a
court of competent jurisdiction may excise an unconscionable provision.’” (Id.
at p. 880.) “In other words, pursuant to an exception …, if a severability
clause states that a court may excise unconscionable provisions, the
delegation clause does not meet the heightened standard necessary for
enforcement, because it is no longer clear that only the arbitrator may decide
issues such as unconscionability.” (Ibid. [emphasis in original];
accord. Aanderud v. Superior Court
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891 [“‘There are two prerequisites for a delegation
clause to be effective. First, the language of the clause must be clear and
unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the delegation must not be revocable under
state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.’ [Citations.]”].)
Defendants argue that the scope and
defenses to the arbitration agreement should be determined by an American
Arbitration Association (AAA) arbitrator. Defendants refer to the Agreement’s
term providing that arbitration will be conducted under the auspices of the AAA
and note that the AAA Commercial Rules incorporated into the Agreement provide
that the arbitrator has “‘the power to rule on his or her own jurisdiction,
including any objections with respect to their existence, scope or validity of
the arbitration agreement or to the arbitrability of any claim or
counterclaim.’ Rule R-7(a) ….” (Mot., p. 4.)
Plaintiffs fail to address this
delegation in their opposition.
The Court finds that there is a
valid delegation clause divesting this Court of jurisdiction to determine the
scope of and defenses to the arbitration agreement.
California courts have determined
that where an arbitration agreement incorporates arbitration rules and those
rules give the arbitrator the right to decide the scope of and defenses to
arbitration, there is a clear and unmistakable intent to delegate the
resolution of those questions to the arbitrator. (See Brinkley v. Monterey
Financial Servs., Inc. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 314, 353-354 [“In our view,
an agreement that incorporates by reference terms that address the question at
issue, such as the agreements’ incorporation of the AAA rules in the instant
case, is not silent regarding the delegation of arbitrable issues to the
arbitrator. The parties’ agreement to arbitrate their disputes under a
specifically designated set of rules, which in turn provide that the arbitrator
shall decide whether the parties' arbitration agreement permits class
arbitration, is ‘clear and unmistakable’ evidence that the parties intended to
delegate the resolution of that question to the arbitrator.”].)
Here, the Governing Law section of
the arbitration agreement provides that “[t]he arbitration shall be … conducted
in accordance the American Arbitration Association.” (Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A,
§ 8(e).) Though this sentence lacks the word ‘rules’ after “American
Arbitration Association,” the Court determines that the Agreement is clear in
providing that any arbitration would proceed according to the terms set by the
AAA, including its rules. As argued by Defendants, AAA’s Commercial Arbitration
Rules and Mediation Procedures provide that “[t]he arbitrator shall have the
power to rule on his or her own jurisdiction, including any objections with
respect to the existence, scope, or validity of the arbitration agreement or to
the arbitrability of any claim or counterclaim, without any need to refer such
matters first to a court.” (American Arbitration Association, Commercial
Arbitration Rules and Mediation Procedures (Sep. 1, 2022) Rule R-7, subd.
(a) <https://www.adr.org/sites/default/files/Commercial-Rules_Web.pdf >
[as of Sep. 21, 2023]; see Mot., p. 2, fn. 2 & pp. 4, 6.)
The Court also notes that the
Agreement does not contain any clauses that state that any delegation to AAA is
revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or
unconscionability. (See Mot., Lebow Decl., Ex. A.) Neither do the AAA rules
contemplate severability of the arbitration agreement by a court. (See American
Arbitration Association, Commercial Arbitration Rules and Mediation
Procedures (Sep. 1, 2022) Rule R-7, subds. (a)-(c) <https://www.adr.org/sites/default/files/Commercial-Rules_Web.pdf
> [as of Sep. 21, 2023].) 
Accordingly, the Court is divested
of the jurisdiction to make a determination relating to the scope of and
defenses to the enforcement of the Agreement’s arbitration clause, which are
delegated to a AAA arbitrator.
Defendants’ motion is therefore
GRANTED.
III.
Dismissal or Stay of Action
“If a court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is
an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
Here, because the Court has
compelled arbitration of this action insofar as it is directed against
Defendants TBC Group, Benford, and Lebow, this action is STAYED as to these
Defendants pending the outcome of the arbitrability determination. If the
arbitrator determines that Plaintiffs’ claims against these Defendants are
arbitrable, the action will remain STAYED until a final outcome is reached in
the arbitration or until the Court otherwise specifies.
However, this stay does not apply
to Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant Benford Co., which is not a party to
this motion. 
Conclusion
Defendants Vassal Benford, Ronald
M. Lebow, and TBC Group, LLC’s Motion to Compel Arbitration of Complaint and
Stay Proceedings is GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s action is COMPELLED
into arbitration with the American Arbitration Association insofar as it
relates to Defendants Vassal Benford, Ronald M. Lebow, and TBC Group, LLC.
Pending the outcome of the
arbitrability determination, the Court STAYS this action insofar as it is
directed against Defendants Vassal Benford, Ronald M. Lebow, and TBC Group,
LLC. If the arbitrator determines that Plaintiffs’ claims against these
Defendants are arbitrable, the action will remain STAYED until a final outcome
is reached in the arbitration or until the Court otherwise specifies. The stay
does not apply to claims against Defendant The Benford Company, which was not a
party to this motion.