 Case Number:  23SMCP00557    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Malibu
County Estates Homeowners Assoc., v. Members, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCP00557
MOTION:                  Petition
for Order Reducing Percentage of Votes Necessary to Amend 
HEARING DATE:   1/10/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Under Civil Code section 4275,
the Court has the discretion to reduce the percentage of the affirmative
votes necessary to authorize an amendment to the declaration of a Common
Interest Development. This section provides in relevant part:
 
(a) If in order to amend a
declaration, the declaration requires members having more than 50 percent of
the votes in the association, in a single class voting structure, or members
having more than 50 percent of the votes in more than one class in a voting
structure with more than one class, to vote in favor of the amendment, the
association, or any member, may petition the superior court of the county in
which the common interest development is located for an order reducing the
percentage of the affirmative votes necessary for such an amendment. The
petition shall describe [a] the effort that has been made to solicit approval
of the association members in the manner provided in the declaration, [b] the
number of affirmative and negative votes actually received, [c] the number or
percentage of affirmative votes required to effect the amendment in accordance
with the existing declaration, and [d] other matters the petitioner considers
relevant to the court’s determination. The petition shall also contain, as exhibits
thereto, copies of all of the following: 
 
(1) The governing documents.
 
(2) A complete text of the
amendment.
 
(3) Copies of any notice and
solicitation materials utilized in the solicitation of member approvals.
 
(4) A short explanation of the
reason for the amendment.
 
(5) Any other documentation
relevant to the court’s determination.
 
[…]
 
(c) The court may, but shall not be
required to, grant the petition if it finds all of the following:
 
(1) The petitioner has given not
less than 15 days written notice of the court hearing to all members of the
association, to any mortgagee of a mortgage or beneficiary of a deed of trust
who is entitled to notice under the terms of the declaration, and to the city,
county, or city and county in which the common interest development is located
that is entitled to notice under the terms of the declaration.
 
(2) Balloting on the proposed
amendment was conducted in accordance with the governing documents, this act,
and any other applicable law.
 
(3) A reasonably diligent effort
was made to permit all eligible members to vote on the proposed amendment.
 
(4) Members having more than 50
percent of the votes, in a single class voting structure, voted in favor of the
amendment. In a voting structure with more than one class, where the
declaration requires a majority of more than one class to vote in favor of the
amendment, members having more than 50 percent of the votes of each class
required by the declaration to vote in favor of the amendment voted in favor of
the amendment.
 
(5) The amendment is reasonable.
 
(6) Granting the petition is not
improper for any reason stated in subdivision (e).
 
[…]
 
(e) […] [T]he court shall not be
empowered by this section to approve any amendment to the declaration that:
 
(1) Would change provisions in the
declaration requiring the approval of members having more than 50 percent of
the votes in more than one class to vote in favor of an amendment, unless
members having more than 50 percent of the votes in each affected class
approved the amendment.
 
(2) Would eliminate any special
rights, preferences, or privileges designated in the declaration as belonging
to the declarant, without the consent of the declarant.
 
(3) Would impair the security
interest of a mortgagee of a mortgage or the beneficiary of a deed of trust
without the approval of the percentage of the mortgagees and beneficiaries
specified in the declaration, if the declaration requires the approval of a
specified percentage of the mortgagees and beneficiaries.
 
Analysis
 
Petitioner Malibu Country Estates Homeowners’ Association
(“Petitioner” or “HOA”) moves the Court for an order reducing the percentage of
votes necessary to amend its declaration under Civil Code section 4275. The
Petition describes the HOA as composed of owners of single-family residences
within a community development project, containing one hundred and seven (107)
lots (the “Units”) within the HOA jurisdiction. (Pet. ¶¶ 3-4.) Respondents are
the individual owner-members of the Association that own units within the HOA’s
jurisdiction. (¶ 5.) Reviewing the Petition, the Petitioner meets the statutory
requirements of section 4275.
 
Procedural
Requirements of the Petition
 
The Petition provides the procedurally required
attachments. The HOA is subject to certain governing documents, including
bylaws and CC&Rs. (Pet. ¶ 6, Ex. A.) Importantly to this petition, pursuant
to Section 21 of the CC&Rs, one hundred percent (100%) of the members
must vote “for” an amendment to the CC&Rs. (¶ 7.) The HOA sought to amend
the Governing Documents with the Proposed Amended and Restated Declaration of
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (the "Proposed Amendments"). (Pet.,
Ex. B.) The HOA provides the notices and solicitation materials used to garner
approval of the Proposed Amendments (Id., Exs. C-E) as well as the balloting
materials used (Exs. F-G). 
 
 The Petition
describes the reasoning behind the Proposed Amendments, which reflect the HOA community’s
desire to grow and convert the HOA Jurisdiction into a gated community (the
“Project”). Currently, HOA expenses are minimal—usually between approximately
$10,000 and $15,000 per year. (Pet. ¶ 25.) To fund these expenses, the HOA
makes an annual assessment of $250 per year, per Unit. (Id.) The Project would
increase the annual HOA costs, as the HOA would have to take over the streets
as common property of the HOA. (Id.) The current CC&Rs do not contain provisions
which allow for the effective collection of assessments. (Id.) The Proposed
Amendments seek to clarify and confirm that all homeowners are members of the
Association and are obligated to contribute to their share of the assessments
as determined by the Governing Documents. (¶ 27.) The Amendments also seek to
remove references to the original developer, as it no longer owns any Units. (¶
28.) Additionally, the Amendments would delete a reference to wood shingles and
shakes as roof coverings, following the Malibu Municipal Code. (¶ 29.) 
 
The Amendments to section 20 are the “main reason” for
amending the CC&Rs. (¶ 30.) Critically, it provides rules for assessments
and their collection, including the Association’s right to lien. (Id.) Section
21 has been inserted to avoid the Association’s liability for members’ negligence
such as if a member’s failure to properly maintain a tree causes harm or damage
to users of the streets in the event the streets become the Association’s
common property. (¶ 31.) The Court also notes amendments to section 23, which
provides:
 
Effective on Jan. 1, 2010, the Declaration shall be
extended so that the Declaration shall run with and bind the Association
property, and shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the
Association or the owner of any property subject to the Declaration, his or her
respective legal representatives, heirs, successors and assigns, for a term of
thirty (30) years from the date this Supplement and Amendment to Declaration is
recorded, after which time the term shall be automatically extended for successive
periods of ten (10) years, unless an instrument in writing, signed by a
majority of the then owners of the lots, has been recorded within the year
preceding the beginning of each successive period of ten (10) years, agreeing
to terminate the covenants and restrictions.
 
(Id., Ex. B.)

 
The Petition shows the efforts made to solicit approval
of the Proposed Amendments. (See Pet. ¶¶ 13-18.) The Board undertook an analysis
of the pros and cons of the Project and presented its analysis to all members
at a duly noticed Special Members Meeting held on October 22, 2022. (Pet. ¶
24.) The HOA also conducted a formal straw poll for the purpose of determining
the membership’s level of support for the Project. (¶¶ 24-25.) At present, there is only one class of
voting membership consisting of the members of the HOA. (¶ 10, see Meissner
Decl., ¶ 3) From the straw poll, eighty (80) members voted in favor of the Project, while fifteen members voted against the Project,
and twelve (12) members did not participate in the vote. (¶ 26, Ex. G.) Further, pursuant to formal balloting, out of
one hundred and seven (107) total members, ninety-eight (98) ballots were
submitted, and the results of the voting were as follows: a. Eighty-one (81)
members voted in favor of the Proposed Amendments; b. Seventeen (17) members
voted against the Proposed Amendments; and c. Nine (9) ballots were unreturned.
Thus, 75% of the total members approved the Proposed Amendments. Of course,
this falls short of the 100% required under the current CC&Rs.
 
The above record shows that balloting
on the proposed amendment was conducted in accordance with the governing
documents and applicable laws. It demonstrates that the HOA Board conducted a reasonably
diligent effort to permit all eligible members to vote on the proposed
amendment. Further, from that voting, a clear supermajority of the membership voted in favor of
adopting the Proposed Amendments. Moreover, the record does not show
that the proposed amendments would violate subsection (e)’s forbearances.
Declarant no longer owns any separate interests in the Project. As such, no
special rights,
preferences, or privileges belonging to the Declarant have been altered by the
Proposed Amendments. (Pet. ¶ 34.)
The Association
only has one class of membership, and thus Civil Code section 4275(e)(1) could
not apply to this petition. (¶ 35.) 
Further, the terms of the declaration do not show that any mortgagee,
the City of Malibu, or the County of Los Angeles would be entitled to notice of
the instant proceedings.
 
Reasonableness
 
Respondents Cynthia Kohrs, Sue
Parker Frailey, Glen Frailey, Mark Kunerth, and David E. Hessami oppose the
Petition. Opposing respondents warn that they are strongly opposed to changing
the existing CC&Rs, especially giving power to the HOA to assess and put
liens on their property. They challenge the reasonableness of these terms.  Further, they argue that the express purpose
of this procedure was to address voter apathy, which is not shown here.
 
Voter apathy does not need to be
shown per the plain language of the statute. “ ‘Viewed objectively, the purpose
of ... [section 4275] is to give a property owners' association the ability to
amend its governing documents when, because of voter apathy or other reasons,
important amendments cannot be approved by the normal procedures authorized by
the declaration. [Citation.] In essence, it provides the association with a
safety valve for those situations where the need for a supermajority vote would
hamstring the association.’ ” (Fourth La Costa Condo. Owners Assn. v. Seith,
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 563, 570, emphasis added.) While voter apathy may be a
purpose of the statute, the statute flexibly allows for “other reasons” and “does
not include voter apathy among the list of elements that must be established.”
(Orchard Est. Homes, Inc. v. Orchard Homeowner All., (2019) 32 Cal. App.
5th 471, 475-476.)
 
As the party petitioning for relief
from a supermajority vote requirement, the HOA has the burden of proving that
the amendments are reasonable. (Fourth, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at 577.) “The
term ‘reasonable’ in the context of use restrictions has been variously defined
as ‘not arbitrary or capricious’ [Citations], ‘rationally related to the
protection, preservation or proper operation of the property and the purposes
of the Association as set forth in its governing instruments,’ and ‘fair and
nondiscriminatory.’ [Citations.]” (Id.)
 
Here, the HOA shows that the
proposed amendments are reasonable under this standard. 
Generally, as noted above, the disputed amendments provide
for general and special assessments which are required to fund the Project, as
well as mechanisms for enforcing the assessments. The Project itself is rationally
related to the preservation and operation of the HOA’s property and furthers
the purpose of the HOA. These are not arbitrary and capricious assessments, but
rationally related to the operation of the HOA. The amendments set out
objective, limited and reasonable terms for regular, special and emergency
assessments. For instance, the proposed assessments “shall be used exclusively
to promote, protect, enhance and maintain the recreation, health, safety and
welfare of the residents… improvement, maintenance, replacement, repair and
operation of the Common Area… and to further any other purpose that is for the
common benefit of the Owners...” (Proposed Amendments, § 20.2.) There are
express guidelines, terms and limitations to the general and special
assessments, as well as the requisite due process for individualized
assessments. (Id., §§, 20.3 – 20.12.) The CC&Rs also provide rational terms
and limitations for liabilities. (§§ 20.13-20.15, 21.) 
 
Respondents argue that these terms
would impose significant financial ramifications. Respondents observe that HOA
dues are currently $250 per year (approx. $20.83 per month), and that the
proposed amendments will result in an increase to approximately $350.00 per
month, and an initial special assessment of $1785.00 per homeowner. Respondents
would find it unfair or unreasonable for the HOA to impose such assessments for
“any reason.” However, as noted, there are express reasons and procedures for the
assessments. Thus, the HOA cannot impose assessments for an arbitrary reason,
but only the reasons set forth in the CC&Rs. Further, it is probable that converting
MCE to a gated community would lead to dramatic increases in monthly
assessments. However, such an increase in the assessments would not render the
amendments automatically unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious. Even if $350.00
per month could be considered expensive, the assessments would still be
rationally related to the purpose of the HOA and the preservation/operation of
the HOA property. Additionally, the placement of liens or other enforcement
mechanisms would be reasonable here. The HOA needs a meaningful ability
to raise funds, which would necessarily include enforcement mechanisms for
assessments.
 
The only term that concerns the
Court are the edits to section 23. Respondents argue that the current CC&Rs expire by default unless a
majority of Owners sign an extension, and that the Amendments would
automatically extend after the initial 30-year term for additional 10-year
extension terms unless a majority of Owners sign and record a termination.
Petitioner does not explain the rationale behind this change, and how this
change would relate to the Project or the overall purpose of the HOA.
Petitioner must explain the reason for the amendment and why the
amendment is reasonable in light of the above legal standard before the Court
would include the change in any amendment. 
 
 
If Petitioner provides a satisfactory explanation of the
proposed terms for section 23, then the Court is inclined to grant the
petition. If that occurs, the Court would order the petition GRANTED. The Proposed
Amendments are hereby deemed approved by the Court and shall be effective upon:
(1) this Court's order; (2) recordation of the Amended CC&Rs (attaching
this order) with the County Recorder's Office; and (3) distribution of the
recorded CC&Rs and this Order to all HOA members. 
 
Otherwise, the Court would tentatively
grant the petition except for the proposed changes in section 23. 