

 
BACKGROUND
 
On January
30, 2023, Petitioner Sun-West Properties and Investments, Inc. (“Petitioner”)
filed a Petition for Declaration of Abandonment of Mobilehome (the “Petition”)
against Respondents Aven Louise Chisholm (“Chisholm”) and Jace Morgan Dewolfe
(“Dewolfe”) (collectively, “Respondents”). Petitioner seeks a declaration that the
mobilehome located at 45131 28th Street E, Space 27, Lancaster, CA 93535,
described as 1965 Baron Majestic, Decal Number AAS1557, Serial No. S440 (the
“Mobilehome”) is abandoned. (Petition, ¶2 and p.4.) Petitioner also seeks: (1)
rent according to proof; (2) utilities according to proof; (3) attorneys’ fees
and costs; and (4) other charges according to proof. (Petition, p.4.) 
 
On June
5, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court continued the hearing on the
Petition to July 5, 2023. (See June 5, 2023 Minute Order.)  
 
On June
6, 2023, Petitioner requested, and default was entered against Respondents.  
 
On July
5, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court continued the hearing on the
Petition to August 9, 2023 in order for Petitioner to correct deficiencies in
the Petition. (July 5, 2023 Minute Order.) The Court found that Petitioner did
not show that the Mobilehome fell within the definition of abandoned pursuant
to Civil Code section 798.61. (Id.) The Court also found that Petitioner
failed to present any admissible evidence in support of the Petition. (Id.)

 
On August
9, 2023, the Court issued a minute order continuing the hearing on the Petition
to October 11, 2023. On September 20, 2023, the Court issued a minute order
continuing the hearing on the Petition from October 11, 2023, to November 6,
2023. On October 6, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on the Petition from
November 6, 2023, to November 8, 2023. 
 
To date,
Petitioner has not corrected the deficiencies outlined in the Court’s July 5,
2023 Minute Order. Petitioner has not filed any declarations or other
admissible evidence in support of the Petition.  
  
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioner
seeks a declaration of abandonment as to the Mobilehome.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition has been filed.
  
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Petition
for Declaration of Abandonment of Mobilehome   
A.               
Legal Standard 
An abandoned mobilehome means a
mobilehome which: (1) is located in a mobilehhome park on a site for which no
rent has been paid to the management for the preceding 60 days; (2) is
unoccupied; (3) a reasonable person would believe it to be abandoned; and (4)
is not permanently affixed to the land. (Civ. Code § 798.61(a)(1)(A)-(D).) 
“After determining a mobilehome in a
mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome, the management shall post a
notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome for not less than 30 days,
and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known address and to any known
registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and to any known holder of a
security interest in the abandoned mobilehome. This notice shall be mailed by
registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested.” (Civ. Code §
798.61(b).) 
“Thirty or more days following posting
pursuant to subdivision (b), the management may file a petition in the superior
court in the county in which the mobilehome park is located, for a judicial
declaration of abandonment of the mobilehome . . . [c]opies of the petition
shall be served upon the homeowner, any known registered owner, and any known
person having a lien or security interest of record in the mobilehome by
posting a copy on the mobilehome and mailing copies to those persons at their
last known addresses by registered or certified mail with a return receipt
requested in the United States mail, postage prepaid.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
798.61(c)(1).) 

            “If, at the hearing, the
petitioner shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for an
abandoned mobilehome has been satisfied and no party establishes an interest
therein at the hearing and tenders all past due rent and other charges, the
court shall enter a judgment of abandonment, determine the amount of charges to
which the petitioner is entitled, and award attorney’s fees and costs to the
petitioner.” (Civ. Code § 798.61(d)(2).) 
B.        Discussion  
Initially, the Court finds that the
Petition is still deficient as Petitioner has not submitted any admissible
evidence in support of the Petition. Petitioner has not corrected the
deficiencies articulated in this Court’s July 5, 2023 Minute Order. 
The Court finds that Petitioner has
not made a showing under Civil Code section 798.61(a)(1). The Petition states
that no rent has been paid to the Park Management for the period commencing
August 1, 2021, the Mobilehome is unoccupied, and that Park Management
reasonably believes the Mobilehome to be abandoned. (Petition, ¶ 6.) Petitioner,
however, has not submitted declarations or other admissible evidence in support
of the Petition.[1]
Beyond the allegations of the Petition, the Court has no facts on which to
assess whether the Mobilehome meets the definition of an abandoned mobilehome. There
is no indication via admissible evidence whether: (1) the Mobilehome is
permanently affixed to the land; (2) Respondents own the Mobilehome; (3) the
Mobilehome is unoccupied; or (4) a reasonable person would believe the
Mobilehome to be abandoned. While the Notice of Abandonment and accompanying
Proof of Service are attached as Exhibit 1 to the Petition, such exhibit has
not been authenticated and therefore is not admissible in evidence. In sum,
Petitioner has still failed to make a showing under Civil Code section 798.61(a)(1)
that the Mobilehome is abandoned.  
Additionally, Petitioner has not complied
with Civil Code section 798.61(b). The Notice of Abandonment, which is attached
as Exhibit 1 to the Petition, is not authenticated and therefore cannot be
admitted into evidence. Therefore, Petitioner has failed to make a showing that
it complied with Civil Code section 798.61(b). 
Petitioner, however, has complied with
Civil Code section 798.61(c)(1). Proofs of service were filed on March 10, 2023,
showing that Chisolm and Dewolfe were both served with the Petition by posting
and mailing. Thus, Petitioner has complied with Civil Code section 798.61(c)(1).

Although seeking rent, utilities,
attorneys’ fees and costs, and other charges, Petitioner has failed to make a
showing by a preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for an abandoned
mobilehome has been satisfied. As stated above, Petitioner has submitted no
admissible evidence in support of the Petition and has not satisfied the
requirements of Civil Code sections 798.61(a)(1) and 798.61(b). The Court
therefore cannot enter a judgment of abandonment pursuant to Civil Code section
798.61(d)(2).  
Accordingly, due to the aforementioned
issues concerning the Petition, the Court DENIES the Petition without
prejudice. 
 II.        Conclusion
            
            The Court DENIES the Petition WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 


