 Case Number:  BC682898    Hearing Date:   May 31, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 31, 2024                         JUDGMENT: August 17, 2022
                                                           
CASE:                         Andreas Kratky, et al. v. Downtown
Prime, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC682898            
 
(1)  
MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT;
(2)  
MOTION FOR ORDER DISCHARGING STAKEHOLDERS FROM
LIABILITY

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiff Jenna King; (2) Defendants Downtown
Prime, LLC; Moses Babazadeh, David Baradarian, and Pedram Yadidsion, joined by
Non-Party Scottsdale Insurance Co.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendants
Downtown Prime, LLC; Moses Babazadeh, David Baradarian, and Pedram Yadidsion;
(2) No response on eCourt as of 5/28/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:

11/08/17:
     Complaint filed.
07/20/20:
     Judgment entered.
08/21/20:
     Appeal filed by Plaintiff Jenna King
02/23/22:
     Remittitur of Appeal by Plaintiff Jenna King; Judgment affirmed.
08/17/22:
     Final Judgment entered. 

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a breach of lease
action. Plaintiffs sued Defendants for multiple habitability violations. All
parties entered into a move-out settlement agreement. Plaintiff Jenna King
contested the settlement agreement, and judgment was entered against her on July
20, 2020. Plaintiff appealed that order, and the Court of Appeal affirmed the
judgment. 
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
enforcing a settlement agreement to pay Plaintiff $63,030 from settlement funds
of $99,000, with the remainder to be interplead with the Court. Defendants,
joined by Scottsdale Insurance Company, move to interplead the entire balance
of the settlement funds with the Court and be discharged from further
liability. 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Enforce
Settlement is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’ Motion for
Interpleader and Discharge of Liability is GRANTED.
 
            Scottsdale
Insurance Company’s Motion to Intervene and Joinder to Motion for Interpleader
and Discharge of Liability is GRANTED.
 
            Defendants
and Intervenor are directed to deposit the balance of the settlement funds
totaling $99,000.00 with the Court. Upon confirmation that the funds have been
deposited with the Court, Defendants and Intervenor will be discharged from all
liability with respect to those funds and thereafter dismissed with prejudice. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Enforce Settlement
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order enforcing a settlement agreement to pay Plaintiff $63,030
from settlement funds of $99,000, with the remainder to be interplead with the
Court.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Enforcement
of settlement agreements is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6.
This statute provides, in relevant part:
 
If the
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of
the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant
to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 664.6(a).) The
Court is empowered under this section to resolve reasonable disputes over the
terms of a settlement. (Machado v. Myers (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 779,
795.) The Court does not insert provisions into the parties’ agreement but
applies the rules of contractual interpretation to interpretation of the
settlement. (Id. at 792.) When extrinsic evidence is necessary, the
Court may decide the motion on declarations alone. (Richardson v. Richardson
(1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 91, 97.) 
 
Procedural History
 
            This case
began as an action for fraud and breach of lease filed by Plaintiff Jenna King
and nine other individuals, alleging that the Plaintiffs had entered into commercial
leases with the Defendants under the belief that the units were suitable for
residential use. (Complaint ¶¶ 14-16.) Plaintiffs contended that Defendants
misrepresented the status of the units as residential when they were permitted
for commercial use only. (Id. ¶¶ 17-18.) At the time, all Plaintiffs,
including Ms. King, were represented by BASTA, Inc. 
 
            On July 1,
2019, the parties, including Ms. King, executed a short form settlement
agreement, in which Defendants agreed, as relevant here, to pay the Plaintiffs,
as a group, $1 million in exchange for a full release of claims and settlement
of the case. (Declaration of Thomas F. Mortimer ISO Mot. Exh. E.) After
Plaintiff King signed the short form settlement agreement, a dispute arose
between her and BASTA regarding the allocation of the settlement funds, which
led to BASTA requesting to be relieved as counsel (November 12, 2019 Minute
Order) and Plaintiff challenging the settlement agreement. The Court granted
Defendants’ Motion to Enforce the Settlement and thereafter entered judgment on
the settlement. (February 19, 2020 Minute Order; July 20, 2020 Judgment.) The
judgment was affirmed on appeal, and Defendants awarded costs on appeal.
(February 23, 2022 Remittitur.) 
 
            In 2023,
Defendants in this action filed an unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff
King, entitled Downtown Prime, LLC v. King, LASC Case No. 23STUD04483,
which settled for a stipulated judgment for possession of the property, in
exchange for the owners releasing $20,000 to Plaintiff King out of her
agreed-upon share of the settlement proceeds of $119,000 in this case, and
waiving the Court’s award of attorney’s fees and costs. (Mortimer Decl. Exh.
A.) BASTA, as Plaintiff’s former counsel, is asserting a lien against her
recovery on the remaining $99,000 in settlement funds for the reasonable value
of services rendered and unpaid costs advanced on her behalf during the representation.
(Id. Exh. B.) Counsel for BASTA has represented to Plaintiff and
Defendants that the amount of the lien as of February 29, 2024 was $35,970. (Id.
Exh. C.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order requiring Defendants to release $63,030 in settlement funds,
with the remainder to be interplead with the Court. Both the short form
settlement agreement and the Stipulated Judgment in the unlawful detainer
matter state that the Court shall retain jurisdiction to enforce the agreement
pursuant to section 664.6. (Mortimer Decl. Exhs. A, E.) Under the terms of the
unlawful detainer stipulation, as relevant here: 
 
Plaintiff [Downtown
Prime LLC] shall release $20,000 in relocation fees from Defendant Jenna King’s
share of the settlement funds of $119,000 in Kratky v. Downtown Prime, et. al.,
LASC Case No. BC682898 (“Kratky Matter”) upon execution of this Stipulation for
Entry of Judgment. The remainder of $99,000 in settlement funds in the Kratky
Matter will be distributed after Defendant Jenna King vacates the unit and
will be reduced by the lien asserted by her former attorneys, BASTA in an
amount which will ascertained and interplead with the Los Angeles Superior
Court by Plaintiff Downtown Prime, LLC in the Kratky Matter. 
 
(Mortimer Decl. Exh. A. ¶ 8 [emphasis added].) Plaintiff
King contends that Defendants have refused to disburse any of the remaining
$99,000 in settlement funds because of the dispute regarding the validity and
amount of the lien. According to the correspondence between Plaintiff,
Defendants, and BASTA, BASTA argues that, under a quantum meruit theory, the
reasonable value of its services might exceed the stated lien which represents
only the minimum to which BASTA is entitled. (Mortimer Decl. Exh. C.) Plaintiff
asserts that these claimed fees are unsubstantiated and unreasonable, and that
all issues were resolved by the Judgment in this action. However, the
settlement agreement is silent on the issue of attorney’s liens, and the
Judgment only states that “Plaintiffs are responsible for any and all liens
from their respective settlement proceeds.” (Mortimer Decl. Exh. D. ¶ 5.) Moreover,
Plaintiff King expressly stipulated in the unlawful detainer action that the
amount of the lien would be “ascertained and interplead with the Los Angeles
Superior Court . . . in the Kratky Matter.” (Id. Exh. A. ¶ 8.) Thus,
before settlement funds can be disbursed, the Court must determine how much BASTA
is owed for the reasonable value of its services—an amount which Plaintiff’s
own arguments and papers show to be hotly contested. 
 
            Given this unresolved
dispute, and for the reasons set forth in further detail below, the Court
declines to order enforcement of the settlement in the manner sought by
Plaintiff. Instead, the full balance of $99,000 should be interpled with the
Court so that the Court may resolve the fee dispute once and for all.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Enforce Settlement is DENIED.
 
Motion For Order Discharging Stakeholders from
Liability
 
            Defendants,
joined by their insurance carrier, Scottsdale Insurance Co., move for an order
permitting them to interplead the settlement funds with the Court and be
discharged from liability. 
 
Legal Standard for Interpleader
 
“Any person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or
may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may give rise
to double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to
compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 386(b).) “When a person may be subject to conflicting claims for money or
property, the person may bring an interpleader action to compel the claimants
to litigate their claims among themselves. (Id.) Once the person admits
liability and deposits the money with the court, he or she is discharged from
liability and freed from the obligation of participating in the litigation
between the claimants. [Citations.] The purpose of interpleader is to prevent a
multiplicity of suits and double vexation. [Citation.]” (City of Morgan Hill
v. Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) 
“In an interpleader action, the
court initially determines the right of the plaintiff to interplead the funds;
if that right is sustained, an interlocutory decree is entered which requires
the defendants to interplead and litigate their claims to the funds. Upon an
admission of liability and deposit of monies with the court, the plaintiff may
then be discharged from liability and dismissed from the interpleader action.
[Citations.] The effect of such an order is to preserve the fund, discharge the
stakeholder from further liability, and to keep the fund in the court's custody
until the rights of potential claimants of the monies can be adjudicated.
[Citations.] Thus, the interpleader proceeding is traditionally viewed as two
lawsuits in one. The first dispute is between the stakeholder and the claimants
to determine the right to interplead the funds. The second dispute to be
resolved is who is to receive the interpleaded funds. [Citations.]” (Dial
800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 42–43.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
seek an order finding that they are entitled to interpleader regarding the
$99,000 balance of settlement funds. Interpleader is proper if the stakeholder
disavows interest in the property sought to be interpleaded and the Court can
resolve the entire controversy without the stakeholder. (Pacific Loan Mgmt.
Corp. v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1485, 1489-90.) 
 
According to Defendants, and as is
evident from Plaintiff’s papers in support of the Motion to Enforce Settlement,
there is a dispute between Plaintiff and BASTA regarding the proper amount owed
to BASTA for the reasonable value of services rendered. (See Declaration of
Gloria Medel ISO Mot. ¶¶ 9-12, Exhs. 7-9.) Defendants state that $825 of the
settlement funds are held in the client trust account of their counsel.
(Declaration of Moses Babazadeh ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) Defendants affirmatively disavow
any claim as to those funds. (Id. ¶¶ 6-7.) The remaining funds are held
by Scottsdale Insurance Company, who likewise disavows any claim to the funds
in their possession. (Declaration of Shana Bereche ISO Mot. ¶¶ 3-8.) Moreover,
the parties agree that the remaining issues to be resolved in this action are
solely between Plaintiff King and BASTA concerning the proper amount of fees
and costs owed to BASTA for their services to Plaintiff and, thus, how the
$99,000 should be split between Plaintiff King and BASTA. The Court therefore
finds that an order for interpleader and discharge is proper as to the
Defendants in this action. 
 
Intervention by Scottsdale Insurance Co.
 
            Nonparty
Scottsdale Insurance Company seeks leave to intervene, interplead the remaining
$98,175 in settlement funds, and thereafter be discharged. 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 387 provides, in pertinent part: 
 
(d)(1) The court
shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
 
… 
 
(B) The person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect
that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties. 
 
(2) The court may
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 387 (d)(1)(B); (d)(2).) Section 387 is to
be construed liberally in favor of intervention. (See, e.g., Lindelli v.
Town of Anselmo (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1499, 1505.) 
 
            Here,
Scottsdale contends that it has an interest in this action insofar as it is in
possession of $98,175 in funds allocated to the settlement between the parties
in this action which could expose it to liability if it retains those funds to
which Plaintiff and BASTA assert competing claims. (Bereche Decl. ¶¶ 3-8.) Scottsdale
also contends that if it does not intervene, its interests will not be served
by Defendants’ Motion for Discharge because Scottsdale would not be before the
Court. The Court concurs and will therefore permit Scottsdale to intervene for the
limited purpose of interpleading the remaining funds and joining Defendants’
Motion for Discharge. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Interpleader and Discharge of Liability is GRANTED.
 
            Scottsdale
Insurance Company’s Motion to Intervene and Joinder to Motion for Interpleader
and Discharge of Liability is GRANTED.
 
            Defendants
and Intervenor are directed to deposit the balance of the settlement funds
totaling $99,000 with the Court. Upon confirmation that the funds have been
deposited with the Court, Defendants and Intervenor will be discharged from all
liability with respect to those funds and thereafter dismissed with prejudice. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Enforce Settlement is DENIED.
 
            Defendants’ Motion for
Interpleader and Discharge of Liability is GRANTED.
 
            Scottsdale
Insurance Company’s Motion to Intervene and Joinder to Motion for Interpleader
and Discharge of Liability is GRANTED.
 
            Defendants
and Intervenor are directed to deposit the balance of the settlement funds
totaling $99,000 with the Court. Upon confirmation that the funds have been
deposited with the Court, Defendants and Intervenor will be discharged from all
liability with respect to those funds and thereafter dismissed with prejudice. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  May 31, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 