 Case Number:  23SMCV04061    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel. 
Much of the motion has become moot by virtue of agreements between the
parties, which the court appreciates, although they would have been better had
they been reached before the motion was filed. 
The remaining issues go to Topic 3 of the PMK deposition and RFP 2 to
the PMK deposition, as well as RFP 21-24, which are a bit different.  The latter are requests for policies and
procedures.  Defendant has stated that
they will be produced but only subject to a confidentiality order or
agreement.  Plaintiff has refused to so
agree as to those documents (but has as to other documents).
Turning first to the policies and procedures, the court
generally agrees with plaintiff.  It is
up to defendant to make at least some showing as to why those documents should
be subject to a confidentiality stipulation. 
Although those stipulations have become less cumbersome than in days
past, they are still a burden on the party getting documents.  The better practice here, procedurally, would
be in line with defendant’s view.  Given
that there is a confidentiality agreement in place, the easiest way to deal
with this problem would be to let defendant designate the documents as
confidential and then have plaintiff challenge the designation.  Challenging is easy; generally all it
requires is a specification as to the challenged documents and a reason for the
challenge (such as “the documents in question are not within the definition of
‘Confidential’ in the stipulation.”)  The
burden then shifts to the designating party to bring a motion or
de-designate.  That gets us to the same
place as we are now.  Plaintiff, however,
refused to allow defendant to designate these documents at all.  Having said all of that, the bottom line is
that the burden is on the defense to justify the refusal to produce.  Defendant has not made that showing.  Defendant has not articulated any particular
policy that would constitute some sort of trade secret.  To the contrary, they are (one would assume)
relatively widely available within defendant’s organization, or at least
defendant has made no showing to the contrary. 
Nor is there some showing that these particular policies were scripted
in some trade-secret sort of manner.  The
closest defendant comes is to say that it had to spend money to obtain the
policies—likely from a third party source. 
While that makes them expensive, it does not make them secrets.  One supposes that defendant would be at a
competitive disadvantage if it had to pay $1 million (for example) for these
policies but plaintiff made them public so that a competitor got them for
free.  But even that supposition is
unsupported by evidence.  And to the
extent a third party wrote them more generically, the secret (if it is a
secret) belongs to that party.  If
defendant is under a contractual obligation not to disclose, that might also
suffice, but no showing has been made their either.  Without at least some showing, the court must
side with plaintiff here and the motion is GRANTED.
There are two other categories relating to “Incident
Reports” and “Unusual Occurrence Reports.” 
One is the application of Evidence Code section 1157 and the other is
attorney/client or work product documents. 
The court begins with the 1157 argument.
Defendant’s major contention here is that these reports are
protected under Evidence Code section 1157. 
As defendant correctly states, where the statute applies it creates an
immunity from discovery.  Defendant
contends that these reports are within the privilege so it will not produce the
reports or a witness who will testify as to the reports’ contents.  Defendant will, however, produce a witness
who can be asked foundational questions concerning those reports.  Evidence Code section 1157 provides: “Neither
the proceedings nor the records of organized committees of medical . . . staffs
in hospitals, or of a peer review body . . . having the responsibility of
evaluation and improvement of the quality of care rendered in the hospital, . .
. shall be subject to discovery.”  The
key to the statute is that the document must be the records of the covered
organized committee or review body.  Not
every record will qualify, and just because a record goes to that body or might
go to that body does not mean it is within the privilege.  (Any more than sending every document to the
lawyer makes every document privileged.) 
To the contrary, information developed or obtained by hospital administrators
that does not derive from an investigation into the quality of care or the
evaluation thereof by a medical staff committee is not within the statute even
if it is later placed in the possession of the committee.  (Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital v. Superior
Court (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711.)  
For purposes of this motion, the court believes that
defendant has the right to assert section 1157 and log the documents.  That, coupled with its willingness to provide
a witness who will give meaningful testimony on the subject, is enough for now
subject to a later motion to compel.  The
court must be clear, though.  The witness
will need to be able to discuss the logged documents, how they were created,
the uses to which the documents were put, the people who had access to the
documents, and the policies surrounding when such a report is written.  
The laudable purpose of this statute is to allow medical
organizations to have frank and candid discussions about things that go wrong
so that they can improve.  Without the
privilege, such bodies would either have to shoehorn some attorney/client
protection or would be having discussions under the cloud of knowing that the
discussions and reports would be discoverable and if a weakness was found, the
report would be an admission of liability. 
The downside is that potentially evidence of negligence would not come
to light.  That is a policy call for the
Legislature and the Legislature made it; it is not for the court to
second-guess the statute.  But the court
must also not allow the shield to become the “bad document privilege.”  The documents in question must come within
the privilege as articulated in the Evidence Code.  If not, they must be produced.  The PMK ought to be able to provide clarity
here.  Thus, at least subject to a later
motion to compel, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE provided that a log is
turned over within 5 court days and the PMK is able to testify sufficiently to
lay the foundation (for it is ultimately defendant’s burden to establish that
each non-produced document comes within the statute).  The court is aware that the better practice
here would have been for the foundation to be laid in the log.  However, given that the deposition will be
coming VERY SOON, and that this is part of a deposition subpoena, the court
will allow the foundation to be laid in that manner.  
That leaves attorney/client work product material.  Not surprisingly, the issue is not really
documents that went from one person to a lawyer and no one and no where
else.  The question is whether these
reports or other documents are within the privilege or the doctrine even if
they went from one non-lawyer to another. 
The problem is that privileges like this are governed by the “dominant purpose”
test, meaning that the document is privileged if its dominant purpose is to aid
counsel as opposed to having been created for some other purpose but that also
happens to aid counsel.  (Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725.)  The test is articulated at some length in the
seminal case of D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d
723.  Here, defendant provided a
declaration from Caroline Anyadike, who said that the documents are on a
computer system that have a pre-printed screen that states “Confidential and
Privileged—Prepared for Healthcare Qualify Improvement, Attorney and Litigation
Purposes.”  That heading, though, is of
little moment.  A pre-printed screen
hardly establishes the truth that the later-filled-in content is in fact
privileged.  But she goes on and states
that these reports are not widely circulated and are seen only by staff who
wrote the report, the Patient Advocate, Ms. Anyadike, counsel, and the QA
committee.  And as to the documents in
question, she attests that they were provided to no one else.
At least as a prima facie matter, that is enough
pending the deposition where the PMK can lay more of the foundation.  It does not appear that these reports were
used for some unrelated purpose or the like. 
However, having asserted the privilege, if the privilege holds the court
assumes that none of these documents will find their way into the hands of
testifying experts or be introduced at some later time during the trial.  Nor will any witness testify about them or
refresh recollection based on them.  If a
privilege or protection is asserted successfully, it cannot later be
waived.  And this is likely a
topic-by-topic issue.  In other words, if
these reports are for a privileged purpose, then all of them are for that
purpose; the privilege cannot be selectively waived for some reports but not
others.  But within that limitation, and
subject to a challenge after the deposition, the motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
Court believes there is sufficient justification to avoid
sanctions.
All promised documents and the log to be produced in 2 court
days to the extent not already done.  A
further motion to compel may be filed based on the deposition.