  Case Number:  21SMCV01459    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  I The court is unhappy about this.  HVC and Cornejo seek to amend their
cross-complaint to name the architect (ROE 6) and the contractor who completed
the work after HCV was terminated (ROE 7). 
(HVC also sought to add another party—ROE 8—but has since withdrawn that
request.)  Plaintiffs oppose, claiming
cross-complainants were not diligent and that there will be prejudice.  
According to cross-complainants, they could not sue the
architect until after the site inspection. 
They claim that to get a certificate of merit (as is required to sue the
architect) they needed to have both the actual plans (which they claim that
they did not get until relatively late) and also inspect the site, which
plaintiff would not allow until about a month before the motion was filed.  It is and was proper to get the certificate
of merit before suing the architect and the court is not prepared to say that
the certificate could have been obtained without the site inspection.  But that said, this argument was made for the
first time in reply and is not supported by the expert’s declaration but rather
is supported only by hearsay from counsel. 
The court will inquire as to this and will allow cross-complainants to
provide a short declaration from the expert no later than Monday at 4:00 pm
confirming unambiguously that no certificate of merit could be given until
after the physical inspection.  The remainder
of this tentative depends on that being filed. 
If it is not filed, then the claim is unsupported and the court would be
inclined to DENY the motion.
Assuming that the declaration is filed, then even if HCV was
aware of the basic alleged flaw, they could not sue the architect until after
the site inspection.  Cross-complainants
sought to do the inspection in February 2023, but plaintiffs delayed the
inspection until November.  The court is
therefore inclined to GRANT the motion as to the architect if the declaration
is timely filed.  If it turns out that
the plans were faulty and HCV built according to the plans, it could be that
the jury finds joint liability: the architect for writing faulty plans and HCV
for not figuring it out and building it anyway. 
Of course, there are other permutations, but the court cannot say that
joint liability is not among them. 
Because if there is joint liability there could be a claim for equitable
indemnity or contribution, it would make sense to try the case at one
time.  Doing so would insure that the
architect is bound by the jury’s verdict and that there are no inconsistent
judgments.  If the cases are tried
separately, the architect—who is not now a party at all—would not be bound by
the jury’s determination.  As a result,
if there were joint and several liability HCV would have to bring a separate
action against the architect and prove the architect’s fault to the other jury,
who might see it differently.
The situation is different as to ROE 7.  HCV’s theory is that this entity was brought
in after HCV was terminated and the problems about which the Balters complain
is really the new contractor’s fault, not HCV’s fault.  The court is more troubled by this.  Of course, the new contractor owed no duty to
HCV.  Thus, HCV is not suing, and cannot
sue, for any breach of contract or negligence. 
Rather, the only theory would be that HCV will assert equitable
indemnity or contribution if the fault lies with the new contractor.  But there is a problem.  If AMF (the new contractor) did faulty work,
it is hard to see how the liability would be joint.  Rather, it would be several.  HCV is liable for the faulty work it did (if
any) and AMF is liable for the faulty work it did (if any).  But neither is liable for the other side’s faulty
work.  As such, HCV is fully entitled to
argue to the jury that AMF is the party that really messed up the work, and if
the jury believes it, HCV’s liability will be less whether or not AMF is a
party.  Absent a finding of joint
liability, there is no cause of action for equitable indemnity or contribution,
and thus no reason to add the party.  To
find equitable indemnity or contribution, the jury must find that AMF and HCV
are joint tortfeasors, not just two entities who did work at the same
site.  (Prince v. Pacific Gas &
Elec. Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151; Morgan Creek Residential v. Kemp
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 675.)  The court
will inquire further about this, and it could be that HCV is able to explain
why AMF is in the same position as the architect.For those reasons, the court will GRANT the motion for leave
to amend as to the architect (conditioned upon receipt of the declaration) but
DENY the motion as to AMF.  That is
without prejudice to the right of a newly-named defendant to demur to the
cross-complaint.  For now, the current
trial date will hold.  If the architect
needs to do discovery, it ought to be as expedited as possible.  The hope is that the vast majority of the
discovery (or at least document production) has already been done.
