 Case Number:  23SMCV03553    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to file under seal.  The allegedly confidential material concerns
certain employment terms and information including personnel information about
a terminated employee.  It also has
contact information.  Further, the Joshi
declaration allegedly has confidential business information concerning
employment terms.  The explanation as to
why this is confidential is provided by a lawyer, which is not proper. 
Plaintiff contends that the unredacted materials were not
properly filed under conditional seal. 
Defendant contends that in fact the filing was done properly on October
27, 2023.  For now, the court will assume
a timely filing by the defense, although the court will inquire.
Turning to the merits, the standard is well settled.  The moving party must show that there is an
overriding interest that overcomes the public’s interest in access, the
overriding interest supports sealing the record, the overriding interest will
likely be prejudiced absent sealing, the sealing is narrowly tailored, and
there are no less restrictive means.  (McGuan
v. Endovascualr Techs., Inc. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974.)  Here, defendants seek to file some documents
in redacted form with the unredacted version under seal and to file other
documents under seal in their entirety. 
In support of their motion, defendants provide a declaration from
litigation counsel as to the need for confidentiality.  That declaration is not sufficient because
there is no foundation for it.  The
factual showing must be supported by admissible evidence.  That means that a person with an adequate
foundation must declare what the overriding interest is that requires sealing
and the harm that would befall defendants absent a sealing order, as well as
some basis to believe that the absolute minimum sealing is being
requested.  Litigation counsel typically
has no basis to know that information one way or the other.  The situation might be different if
defendants had some kind of general counsel that dealt with the business end of
defendants’ work.  Under those
circumstances, counsel with a business background might be able to testify as
to why certain information is confidential for some particularized purpose and
how having the information get out in public could be harmful.  That person could also testify as to whether
that information is already generally known or known to others beyond the
defense and what steps have been taken to keep the information
confidential.  For example, a memorandum
written by one of the defendants or one of defendants’ agents or employees to
plaintiffs bearing no instruction to keep the information confidential might
well itself be a waiver.  Less of a
showing would be needed for certain kinds of other things.  For example, the recordation of a meeting
where certain performance pieces or dance moves that have not yet been made
public was discussed would have some relatively obvious confidentiality traits.
The court feels differently regarding personnel information
concerning employees who are not parties to this case as well as personal
contact information.  As to that, the
court is inclined to grant the motion to the extent of that information
only.  The court suggests, however, that
if the specific confidential portion of the document is not germane to the
motion, that there be no unredacted version filed at all.  The court has no problem having a party
redact information that is sensitive and not germane to the motion such that no
unredacted version is filed.  Under those
circumstances, of course, the court will not see the unredacted version either,
but no motion to seal is required at all. 
If the information is germane, of course, that solution will not work.
For now, the court will ORDER a further supporting
declaration to be filed within 5 court days establishing the factual bases for
the McGuan test.  The court will
also request that a courtesy copy of the unredacted materials—with the
redactions clearly marked—be provided to the court at the same time.  These documents will also be served on
plaintiffs’ counsel but plaintiffs’ counsel is ordered not to disclose them or
allow them to be disseminated beyond this case. 
Documents will remain conditionally under seal until the court rules.
Upon receipt of that information, the court will set a
hearing date to allow the parties to argue the matter.
However, at today’s hearing, the court will inquire of
plaintiffs’ counsel whether counsel agrees that the materials were properly
filed conditionally on October 27, 2023, and whether plaintiffs’ counsel has a
copy of them.  If plaintiffs’ counsel
does not have a copy of the conditionally-filed documents, the court will not
consider any of the redacted information in deciding the SMS.