 Case Number:  21STCV12015    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV12015




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel s Deposition of Plaintiff




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Eddie Weitzer 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Eddie Weitzer (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Frederick Sauls’ (“Plaintiff”)
deposition. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of David J. Mendoza shows that Defendant’s counsel has
attempted to confer with Plaintiff’s counsel in re-scheduling the deposition.
Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, on May 30, 2023, Defendant first served a notice of Plaintiff’s
deposition, set for August 29, 2023. (Mendoza Decl. ¶ 3.) Upon Plaintiff’s
counsel’s request, Defendant re-noticed the deposition for October 17, 2023. (Id.
¶ 5, Exh. C.) On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel stated the deposition
needed to be rescheduled. Plaintiff failed to appear on October 17, 2023, and
Defendant obtained a certificate of non-appearance. (Id. ¶ 6–7, Exh. E.)
Then, on January 22, 2024, Plaintiff again failed to appear at a noticed
deposition. (Id. ¶ 12, Exh. G.) The parties have been unable to agree on
an alternative deposition date. (Id. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff does not oppose
this motion. Therefore, seeing as Plaintiff has not appeared at two noticed depositions
without serving timely objections, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant requests $600 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
his counsel of record, representing an hourly rate of $180 and the $60 filing
fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is
excessive given that no opposition was filed and Defendant can appear remotely
at the hearing. The Court therefore awards monetary sanctions in the amount of
$330 (1.5 hours of attorney time plus the $60 filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff Frederick Sauls shall
appear within 15 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and his counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $330.00. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 