 Case Number:  22STCV21429    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21429




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to Submit Tardy Expert Witness Information




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Mario Hernandez Luna




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 1, 2022, Plaintiff Aida Ayre (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant Mario Hernandez Luna and Does 1 to 25 for negligence
surrounding a motor vehicle accident. 
 
On March 22, 2024, Defendant Mario Hernandez Luna (“Defendant”) filed
the instant motion for leave to submit tardy expert witness information under
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2034.710 and 2034.720. Trial is currently
scheduled for May 1, 2024. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.710 states the following:
 
(a)
On motion of any party who has failed to submit expert witness information on
the date specified in a demand for that exchange, the court may grant leave to
submit that information on a later date.
 
(b)
A motion under subdivision (a) shall be made a sufficient time in advance of
the time limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with
Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion
relates to be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances,
the court may permit the motion to be made at a later time.
 
(c)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
 
The
Court shall grant the motion only if all the following conditions are
satisfied: 
 
“(a)
The court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has
relied on the absence of a list of expert witnesses.
 
(b)
The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be
prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.
 
(c)
The court has determined that the moving party did all of the following:
 
(1) Failed to submit the information as the result of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(2) Sought leave to submit the information promptly after learning of
the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(3) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness
information described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.
 
(d)
The order is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available
immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited
to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a
continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of
costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.”
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2034.720.) 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The
declarations filed in support of this motion do not show facts that counsel for
Defendant has met in conferred with the other parties in this action regarding
the instant motion. Therefore, the meet and confer requirement has not been
met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, the expert witness demand was scheduled to take place on
February 20, 2024. On that day, Plaintiff submitted her expert witness
information. (Lajevardi Decl. ¶ 7.) On February 22, 2024, Defendant discovered
that his expert list had not been timely exchanged. (Id. ¶ 8.) Defendant
contends the expert information was not timely disclosed because on the day of
the exchange, the paralegal charged with sending the information faced a
“severe personal emergency that necessitated [her] immediate attention,
culminating in the need for [her] to file for a restraining order against an
ex-boyfriend who was harassing and stalking [her].” (Pacheco Decl. ¶ 4.) This
caused her to be absent from the office and prevented her from sending the
designation. Defendant provides declarations that after learning of the
omission on February 22, 2024, a copy of the expert information was served on
all parties to this action. (Pacheco Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B; Lajevardi Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
Based on the information provided, the Court finds Defendant failed to
disclose the experts due to inadvertence and surprise since the paralegal
assigned with sending the designation faced an unexpected personal emergency on
the date of the exchange. Plaintiff does not oppose this motion and thus, there
is no showing that Plaintiff relied on Defendant’s absence of an expert witness
list to any extent or that she will be prejudiced.
 
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion for leave to submit tardy expert witness
information is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 