 Case Number:  23STCV10172    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



CHRISTOPHER CASTRO, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DONGALEN ENTERPRISES, INC. d/b/a/ INTERSTATE PLASTICS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV10170




Hearing Date:


June 25, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
  PARTS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT



Background
Plaintiff Christopher
Castro (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action on May 5, 2023 against Defendant Dongalen Enterprises, Inc. d/b/a
Interstate Plastics (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
disability discrimination, (2) failure to provide reasonable accommodation, (3)
failure to engage in the interactive process, (4) retaliation in violation of
FEHA, (5) failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation, (6) whistleblower
retaliation, 
(7)
violation of California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”) rights, (8) “CFRA rights
retaliation,”
(9)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy, and (10) negligent hiring,
retention, and supervision.  
Defendant now moves to strike portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint.
Plaintiff opposes. 
Discussion 
A.    Procedural Issues
As an initial matter, on
May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended opposition to Defendant’s motion to
strike. However, Plaintiff does not appear to cite any order authorizing 
Plaintiff to file an amended
opposition. 
            The
Court notes that on April 26, 2024, the Court issued an Order continuing the
hearing on the instant motion. The April 26, 2024 Order noted that “Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration does not demonstrate that the parties met and
conferred in person, by telephone, or by video
conference…Defendant is¿ordered
to meet¿and confer¿with Plaintiff within 10 days of the date of this order.¿If
the parties are unable to resolve the pleading issues¿or if the parties are
otherwise unable to meet and confer in good faith, Defendant is to¿thereafter¿file
and serve¿a declaration setting forth the efforts to meet and confer in
compliance with Code
of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a)(3) within 15 days of this order.” (April 26, 2024 Order at p. 2.)[1] However, the
Court’s April 26, 2024 Order did not provide that Plaintiff may file an amended
opposition to the instant motion. Thus, the Court will consider the original opposition
filed on April 15, 2024 herein. 
B.   
Legal Standard
A court may strike any “irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or any part of
a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436.) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) 
C.   
Allegations of the Complaint 
In
the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or around October
2014, Plaintiff began his employment with INTERSTATE PLASTICS in Norwalk,
California. At the time of his termination, Plaintiff was employed by
INTERSTATE PLASTICS as a ‘Saw Operator’ working full time. Plaintiff’s
employment lasted until March 16, 2022, when he was wrongfully terminated.”
(Compl., ¶ 10.) 
“In or around November 2021, Plaintiff requested baby bonding leave to
care for his newborn child.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “On November 19, 2021, Renee
Barajas (‘Ms. Barajas’) of Human Resources approved Plaintiff’s leave from
November 18, 2021, through February 10, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) “[O]n or about
November 19, 2021, Plaintiff commenced his baby bonding leave,” and “[o]n or
about February 7, 2022, Plaintiff returned to with [sic] INTERSTATE PLASTICS as
a Saw Operator.” (Compl., ¶¶ 14-15.)
“On or around February 21, 2022, Plaintiff informed his supervisor Sal
Corona (‘Mr. Corona’) that he was suffering from back, shoulder, and wrist pain
and he was unable to come into work that day.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “Later that day,
Plaintiff provided INTERSTATE PLASTICS with a note placing him off work from
February 21, 2022, through March 21, 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) “On March 2, 2022,
Ms. Barajas confirmed receipt of Plaintiff’s medical note and informed him that
he had largely exhausted his protected leave and would provide him with no
additional leave beyond the thirty days company policy allows.” (Compl., ¶ 18.)

“On March 16, 2022, Ms. Barajas inquired if Plaintiff would be
released back to work the following week. Plaintiff informed Ms. Barajas that
his doctor had not yet released him. In response, Ms. Barajas stated, ‘We
unfortunately won’t be able to keep your job open for you then as you’ve
exhausted all leaves.’” (Compl., ¶ 19.) “Plaintiff then pleaded for his job,
begging Ms. Barajas to ‘[p]lease reverse the termination so that I can be
employed during this difficult time in my life.’” (Compl., ¶ 20.) “On March 17,
2022, Plaintiff again requested he not be terminated and informed Ms. Barajas
that his healthcare provider would provide monthly updates regarding his
ability to return to work. Nonetheless, Ms. Barajas responded that wasn’t going
to change her mind and upheld Plaintiff’s termination.” (Compl., ¶ 21.)  
“On March 18, 2022, Ms. Barajas [sic] Plaintiff, ‘You said you would
not be released back to work on Monday. I was willing to hold your job for a
month, and Monday is the month mark. Are you going to be fully released on
Monday?’” (Compl., ¶ 22.) “Plaintiff responded he would not be cleared to
return the following Monday and provided INTERSTATE PLASTICS with another
medical note excusing him from work March 18, 2022 through April 18, 2022.
Unsatisfied with this medical note, Ms. Barajas continued to question
Plaintiff’s leave and demanded to know whether Plaintiff would be released with
or without restrictions.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) “Plaintiff informed Ms. Barajas that
his doctor did not know whether he would be released without restriction until
closer to his return-to-work date.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
“On March 21, 2022, Ms. Barajas confirmed Plaintiff’s termination. Ms.
Barajas stated, ‘I needed a full release by today. We gave you 3 months which
are required for the birth of your child, and an extra month today. Your next
appointment is another month away with still no guarantee of a full release. We
don’t know what that note will look like.’” (Compl., ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges
that “[a]s a result, INTERSTATE PLASTICS wrongfully terminated Plaintiff
because of his disability and in retaliation for him taking legally protected
leave under CFRA.” (Compl., ¶ 26.)
D.   
Punitive Damages 
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in connection with each of the causes
of action of the Complaint. (Compl., ¶¶ 48, 59, 69, 79, 88, 101, 112, 122, 129,
137.) Defendant moves to strike paragraphs 29, 30, 31, and 32 of the Complaint,
as well as paragraph 3 of the Prayer for Relief of the Complaint. 
A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged do not rise to the
level of “malice, oppression or fraud” required to support a punitive damages
award. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 64.) “‘Malice’ means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” (Id., § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
Defendant argues, inter alia, that “Plaintiff’s Complaint contains no
factual allegations of ‘despicable conduct’ by Defendant. Plaintiff does not
even allege sufficient facts that give rise to the level of malice, oppression
or fraud with regards to any of his causes of action.” (Mot. at p. 6:26-28.)
Defendant cites to Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
702, 715, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[d]espicable conduct is conduct that
is…so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people…Such conduct has
been described as [having] the character of outrage frequently associated with
crime.” (Internal quotations and reference to [Citation.] omitted.) The
Scott Court found that “[t]he only evidence of wrongful conduct directed toward
Scott was her termination for an improper reason. This evidence was insufficient
to support a finding of despicable conduct, because such action is not
vile, base or contemptible. Nor do we find this evidence shows a conscious and
deliberate disregard of plaintiff’s interests. ‘Conscious disregard of rights
is conduct by a defendant who is aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of such conduct to plaintiff’s interests and wilfully and deliberately fails to
avoid those consequences.’” (Id. at p. 716.) The Scott Court further
noted as follows: 
 
“In Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 895
[90 Cal. Rptr. 2d 757], a female employee was passed
over for promotion because of her gender. The court held the employer was
liable for punitive damages because it denied the plaintiff a promotion based
on gender, then attempted to hide the illegal reason for denying the promotion
with a false explanation, and that it was this fabrication that constituted the
despicable conduct. (Id.
at p. 912.)
 
In Stephens v. Coldwell Banker Commercial Group, Inc.
(1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 1394 [245 Cal. Rptr. 606],
an age discrimination case, the 63-year-old plaintiff was demoted, and when his
supervisor discovered he had no plans to retire, the supervisor “engaged in a
program of unwarranted criticism of plaintiff’s job performance to justify
plaintiff's demotion.” (Id.
at pp. 1398, , disapproved on another ground in White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 574,
fn. 4 [88 Cal. Rptr. 2d 19, 981 P.2d 944].)
The court found the unwarranted criticism to be oppressive behavior because it
had no factual justification, damaged the plaintiff’s reputation, and subjected
the plaintiff to embarrassment. (Stephens,
at pp. 1403–1404.)
 
Based upon the foregoing cases, we
conclude that wrongful termination, without more, will not sustain a
finding of malice or oppression. There was no evidence Phoenix attempted to
hide the reason it terminated Scott. It admitted to terminating her because she
would not enroll the McMaster child. Likewise, there was no evidence Phoenix
engaged in a program of unwarranted criticism to justify her termination.
Because there was nothing more than a wrongful termination here, punitive
damages were not warranted, and the trial court should have granted defendant’s
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict on the issue of punitive
damages.” (Scott
v. Phoenix Schools, Inc., supra,
175 Cal.App.4th at p. 717.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff
does not appear to address the Scott case.[2] Here, Plaintiff similarly
alleges that he was wrongfully terminated. (Compl., ¶ 10.) However, Plaintiff
does not appear to allege that Defendant “attempted to hide the reason it terminated [Plaintiff]” or “engaged in a
program of unwarranted criticism to justify [Plaintiff’s] termination.” (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc., supra,
175 Cal.App.4th at p. 717.) As set forth above, the Scott Court
concluded that “wrongful termination, without more, will not
sustain a finding of malice or oppression.” (Ibid.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff cites
to Wysinger v.
Automobile Club of Southern California (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 413, 417, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n
employee sued his employer for various discrimination claims under the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act…Among other things, the jury found
the employer liable for its failure to engage in an ‘interactive process’
to determine reasonable accommodation for the employee’s disability. The jury
found the employer not liable, however, for the claim it failed to provide a
reasonable accommodation for the employee’s disability. Here we conclude these
jury findings require different proofs and are not inconsistent.” The Court of
Appeal in Wysinger also noted that “ACSC contends there is no
evidence to support punitive damages because its conduct did not involve
malice, oppression or fraud. Punitive damages are properly awarded ‘when
the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s
rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’ ACSC knew
its older managers objected to its compensation reduction plan. Jurors could
reasonably infer it used pretexts to deny Wysinger a transfer and created a
hostile work environment in retaliation for his EEOC
complaint. Kane told Wysinger, ‘[W]e are going to crush’ the
managers opposed to the plan. He told Coleman, ‘It doesn’t matter what you did
for this company in the last 30 … years. None of that matters. And you can die at your desk.
We’ll replace you tomorrow. Nobody cares.’ The jury could find that this callous and
retaliatory conduct merits an award of punitive damages.” (Id. at p. 428 [internal citation omitted].) 
Plaintiff asserts that here,
he “properly
pleaded facts alleging Defendant engaged in malicious or oppressive conduct so
as to justify his punitive damages allegations: Defendant was aware of
Plaintiff’s disability and his need for a reasonable accommodation in the form
of medical leave, however Defendant explicitly held Plaintiff’s protected CFRA
leave against him when engaging the supposed ‘interactive process,’ ignored
Plaintiff’s pleas for his job, denied him medically necessary and reasonable
work accommodations (because of his previous CFRA leave), belittled and
demeaned his need for accommodation, required him to be fully healed before
returning to work, and ultimately terminated his employment because of his
disability and prior CFRA leave. Such a deliberate and retaliatory course of
conduct by Defendant demonstrates a ‘conscious disregard’ for Plaintiff’s
safety sufficient to sustain a claim for punitive damages.” (Opp’n at pp.
7:24-8:5.) 
In the reply, Defendant counters
that “Plaintiff did not allege lodging any complaints to the EEOC or any other governing agency, prior to his
termination…Additionally, Plaintiff does not allege he was subjected to any
harassing comments, let alone ones that display the cruel indifference as
exemplified in Wysinger.” (Reply at p. 5:3-6.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff also cites to Monge v.
Superior Court (1986)
176 Cal.App.3d 503, 509, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he
next question is whether a cause of action for sexual employment discrimination
may, under law, sustain recovery of punitive damages. The clear answer is that
it may.” The Monge Court further found that “[u]nder any formulation of
the pleading standard, the above quoted allegations of the underlying
complaint, read as a whole, sufficiently allege a deliberate intent on the
part of defendants to sexually harass and then to retaliate against plaintiffs,
causing them to suffer significant mental anguish on the job without regard for
their right to be free from such oppressive and hostile employment conditions.
This concisely pleads defendants’ actions as having an unequivocally evil and
mischievous motive.” (Id.
at p. 511.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Defendant has not demonstrated that the Complaint does not allege
sufficient facts to demonstrate “malice,” “oppression,” or “fraud” for purposes
of Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.[3]
Conclusion

Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s motion to strike is denied.  
Defendant is ordered to file and
serve its answer within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿¿ 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  June 25, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


