  Case Number:  19STCV46503    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



curtis r. olson, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
vidala aaronoff, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


19STCV46503




Hearing Date:


June 25, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTION TO QUASH;
  MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING PLAINTIFF OLSON’S SUBPOENAS FOR
  RECORDS; OBJECTIONS TO PLAINTIFF OLSON’S SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM; QUASH ORDER
  FOR DEBTORS EXAM.




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
Plaintiff Curtis R. Olson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December
23, 2019 against a number of defendants, including Vidala Aaronoff. Plaintiff
filed the operative Second Amended Complaint on November 17, 2020, alleging ten
causes of action.
On August 29, 2023, Jane Doe filed a Cross-Complaint in this action
against, inter alia, Plaintiff. The Cross-Complaint alleges nine causes
of action. 
Defendant Vidala Aaronoff (“Aaronoff”) now moves to quash a “subpoena
duces tecum issued September 25, 2023” by Plaintiff Curtis R. Olson. (Mot. at p. 2:20.) Plaintiff
opposes.[1] 
Discussion
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1, subdivision (a) provides as
follows:  
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”
In her declaration in support of the motion, Aaronoff
states that “I was personally served Subpoena Duces Tecum and Debtor’s Exam on
9/25/2023, attached as Exhibit A is a true and correct copy.” (Aaronoff Decl.,
¶ 2.) Exhibit “A” to Aaronoff’s Declaration is a “CIVIL SUBPOENA (DUCES TECUM)
for Personal Appearance and Production of Documents, Electronically Stored
Information, and Things at Trial or Hearing and DECLARATION” (herein, the
“Subpoena”). (Aaronoff Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
The Subpoena provides that Aaronoff is ordered to appear as a witness
on October 16, 2023 in Department 50, and that Aaronoff is “[o]rdered to appear
in person and to produce the records described in the declaration on page two
or the attached declaration or affidavit.” (Aaronoff Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, p. 1.)
The Subpoena provides, inter alia, that “[t]he items set forth herein
and the information which they contain will be used as an aid and are necessary
to expeditiously complete the examination of the judgment debtor, Vidala
Aaronoff, regarding said judgment debtor’s property subject to levy. This
information and documentation are not otherwise available to the judgment
creditor.”  (Aaronoff Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A,
p. 2.) Attachment 2 to the Subpoena contains 81 requests for documents.
(Aaronoff Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, Attachment 2.) 
As noted by Plaintiff in the opposition, “the subject Judgment
Debtor’s Exam has been continued multiple times…” (Opp’n at p. 3:5-7.) On October
16, 2023, the Court issued a minute order in this action providing, inter
alia, that “[t]he Hearing on Application for Appearance and Examination is
continued as Counsel Gloria Martinez-Senftner is not physically present and is
appearing via LACourtConnect. Hearing on Application for Order for Appearance
and Examination is continued to 11/01/23…The Court Orders Vidala Aaronoff to
appear on November 1, 2023 in Department 50 at 10:00a.m. without further Order
or Subpoena.” 
On November 1, 2023, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, “[m]atter is continued to 01/11/2024…to allow the judgment debtor to
bring the subpoenaed documents. VIDALA AARONOFF, an individual and as trustee
of the ATW TRUST, WITH AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF JANUARY 1, 2012 (Defendant) is
ordered to return on the above date and time, without further notice, order or
subpoena. The subpoena duces tecum is to remain in full force and effect.” 
On January 11, 2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, that “[m]atter is continued to 02/21/24…to allow the judgment debtor
to bring the subpoenaed documents. VIDALA AARONOFF, an individual and as
trustee of the ATW TRUST, WITH AN EFFECTIVE DATE OF JANUARY 1, 2012 (Defendant)
is ordered to return on the above date and time, without further notice, order
or subpoena. The subpoena duces tecum is to remain in full force and effect.” 
On February 21, 2024, the Court issued a
minute order providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court does not find that Aaronoff has demonstrated
grounds for the Court to grant the instant…Motion for Claim of Exemption from
enforcement of the money judgment. Aaronoff’s motion is denied…Pursuant to the
request of moving party, the Hearing on Application for Order for Appearance
and Examination scheduled for 02/21/2024 is continued to 03/22/24...” 
On March 22, 2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, “[a]ll parties agree to the continuance of the Hearing on Application
for Order for Appearance and Examination. Plaintiff’s counsel also agrees to
Vidala Aaronoff producing documents by April 9, 2024. Hearing on Application
for Order for Appearance and Examination is continued to 04/11/24...” 
On April 11, 2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, that “[p]ursuant to the request of defendant, the Hearing on
Application for Order for Appearance and Examination scheduled for 04/11/2024
is continued to 05/14/24…Ms. Aaronoff is ordered to produce the remaining
requested documents to Plaintiff on or before May 13, 2024 at noon.” On May 14,
2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter alia, that “[h]earing
on Application for Order for Appearance and Examination is continued to
07/16/24…The Court ordered Vidala Aaronoff to attend on July 16, 2024 at
10:00a.m. in Department 50.” 
In the instant motion, Aaronoff first asserts that “the subpoena
should be quashed because pursuant to…CCP Section 916,
all proceedings of the trial court are stayed upon perfection of appeal dated
7/12/2022.” (Mot. at p. 4:20-22.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 916,
subdivision (a) provides that “[e]xcept as
provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, and
in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal
stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from
or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement
of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” Code of Civil Procedure section 916, subdivision (b)
provides that “[w]hen there is a stay of proceedings
other than the enforcement of the judgment, the trial court shall have
jurisdiction of proceedings related to the enforcement of the judgment as well
as any other matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or
order appealed from.” 
In the motion, Aaronoff appears to
refer to notices of appeal filed on “7/12/2022” and “June 13, 2022.” (Mot. at
pp. 4:22; 5:13.) The Court notes that on June 13, 2022,
Aaronoff and other parties filed a notice of appeal of an order entered
on May 17, 2022. On May 17, 2022, the Court issued an Order in this action granting
Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees in the amount of $41,697.00.[2]
But as noted by Plaintiff, on February 23,
2024, the Court of Appeal, Second Appellate District, Division Two issued an
opinion providing, inter alia, that “[t]he order granting Olson’s motion for attorney fees
under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is
affirmed.” On May 21, 2024, a remittitur was filed in
this action providing, inter alia, that the February 23, 2024 opinion has become final. Thus, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff that Aaronoff’s “requests to stay these proceedings
or enter a protective order until the appeal is resolved are moot.” (Opp’n at
p. 3:19-20.) 
Next, Aaronoff asserts that “the subpoena duces tecum should be
quashed because the personal financial records are not relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims and any reasonable defenses of any party.” (Mot. at p. 5:20-22.)
Aaronoff asserts that “Plaintiff Olson’s subpoena duces tecum seeks information
prior to the date of the incidents of alleged conduct. Any information sought
prior to the date of incident is irrelevant to the case and has no bearing on
any party’s claims, nor defenses.” (Mot. at pp. 6:26-7:1.) 
As an initial matter, it is unclear what specific requests in the
Subpoena Aaronoff is referring to. As set forth above, the Subpoena contains 81
separate requests. (Aaronoff Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A, Attachment 2.) In addition, Aaronoff’s
arguments above concerning the relevance of the requests do not appear to take
into account that the Subpoena was served in connection with a judgment debtor examination. In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the document requests are “within the wide
scope of permissible subjects on a judgment debtor’s examination.” (Opp’n at p.
4:1-2.) 
Plaintiff cites to Lee v.
Swansboro Country Property Owners Assn. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575,
580-581, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n order
to determine a debtor’s assets, a judgment creditor may propound written
interrogatories and/or demand the production of documents in the manner
provided by the general discovery statutes, and the judgment debtor’s response
must likewise follow the same discovery provisions. By propounding
interrogatories and demanding the production of documents, a creditor may
obtain needed information by relatively simple and inexpensive means. As one
practice guide notes, ‘An inspection demand may provide the judgment creditor
with documents disclosing the debtor’s assets or earnings (e.g., tax returns,
financial statements, payroll stubs, real property deeds, stock certificates,
passbooks, deposit account statements, bonds, trust deeds, automobile ownership
certificates (‘pink slips’), promissory notes, etc.)…An inspection demand is
cheaper than a judgment debtor examination and requires less preparation time.
It can also be used to ‘set up’ a later examination of the judgment debtor.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) The Lee Court also noted that “[w]hile the order to appear at
the examination can also include an order to produce documents, a creditor
often files a subpoena duces tecum separate and apart from the application for
examination. As this court has noted, [i]n preparation for the examination,
discovery may be necessary as the actual examination is not so much a device to
gather information as it is a tool to confirm the existence of certain
assets…Thus, the use of a subpoena duces tecum to discover and inspect relevant
documents is an accepted practice. As one practice guide advises,
[t]hus, as far as practicable, counsel should investigate the debtor’s assets
and subpoena any documents showing ownership … into court at the time of
examination.” (Id. at p. 582 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
Plaintiff asserts that here, “each of
Plaintiff’s document requests are relevant and tailored to matters concerning
Defendant Aaronoff’s past, present, and potential future property and income
from employment, business, and other sources. These requests are exactly within
the scope of a debtor’s examination and further the purpose of such an
examination by allowing Plaintiff to ascertain sources from which the debtor
can pay Fee Award.” (Opp’n at p. 4:10-14.) 
Aaronoff does not appear to respond to this point in the
reply. 
Aaronoff also asserts in the motion that “the Subpoena should be
quashed because it unreasonably infringes on Defendant Aaronoff’s
constitutional right to privacy.” (Mot. at p. 8:15-17.) Aaronoff cites to Davis v.
Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1013, where the Court of Appeal noted that “Article I, section 1 of the
California Constitution…provides in pertinent part that all people are by
nature free and independent and have inalienable rights, among which is
pursuing and obtaining privacy.” Aaronoff asserts that “these records
are clearly constitutionally protected by Defendant’s right to privacy imbedded
in the California Constitution. Any waiver Defendant may have afforded, in so
far as obtaining subpoenaed financial records and information, should be
narrowly construed. Plaintiff has not made any showing of necessity of the any
records beyond a reasonable two to five year time period, nor does the subpoena
or exam include any fact based showing of materiality of the relevance of
Plaintiff’s demand for such personal, confidential financial records.” (Mot. at p. 10:4-9.) 
As noted by Plaintiff, “Aaronoff’s
motion presents general privacy objections, seemingly to the entirety of the
document requests within Plaintiff’s subpoena for debtor’s examination.” (Opp’n
at p. 4:18-19.) Aaronoff’s motion does not appear to object to any specific
request. Thus, it is difficult to determine which request(s) Aaronoff asserts
violate her right to privacy. 
Plaintiff also asserts that his “interests in seeking disclosure of
financial information outweighs Defendant’s right of privacy.” (Opp’n at p.
4:16-17.) Plaintiff cites to SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th
741, 754-755, where the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“Request
No. 14 asked for documents sufficient to show the name and address of each
business in which each of [SCC’s] current or
former officers, shareholders, and/or directors now has an interest and the
nature of each such person’s interest in each such business.
 
SCC argues request No. 14 violates the privacy rights of its
current and former officers, shareholders, and directors. The right of privacy is an inalienable right
secured by article I, section 1 of the California
Constitution. The right of privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled
disclosure of private or personal information and extends to one’s confidential
financial affairs as well as to the details of one’s personal life. Personal
financial information comes within the zone of privacy protected by article I, section 1 of the California Constitution.
 
The constitutional right of privacy does not
provide absolute protection but may yield in the furtherance of compelling
state interests.  [C]ourts must balance
the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy
interests of persons subject to discovery. In determining whether disclosure is
required, the court must indulge in a careful balancing of the right of a civil
litigant to discover relevant facts, on the one hand, and the right of the
third parties to maintain reasonable privacy regarding their sensitive personal
affairs, on the other. The court must consider the purpose of the
information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the affected
persons and parties, the nature of the objections urged by the party resisting
disclosure and availability of alternative, less intrusive means for obtaining
the requested information. Based on an application of these factors, the more sensitive the
nature of the personal information that is sought to be discovered, the more
substantial the showing of the need for the discovery that will be required
before disclosure will be permitted.
 
Obtaining information to
collect on a judgment is a valid significant interest. Having been assigned a
substantial money judgment against SCC, Western has a right to discover facts about the nature and
location of assets to make that judgment more than a scrap of paper. The
information sought by Western’s discovery is financial in nature and a
protective order could be issued, if necessary, to safeguard privacy rights of
third parties. SCC has not
identified other sources from which the information sought by the discovery can
be obtained.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Plaintiff asserts that “[h]ere, Plaintiff has served requests for
production solely seeking property and financial information to discover
property and finances available to pay for the Fee Award. There can be no
dispute about this because[] Defendant Aaronoff’s own motion characterizes the
subject requests as such. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s requests for production
cannot be precluded because they are consistent with the Courts’ application of
privacy laws to post-judgment collection proceedings.” (Opp’n at p. 5:4-9.) In
the reply, Aaronoff does not appear to respond to this point or address the SCC Acquisitions case. As discussed above, the SCC
Acquisitions Court noted that “[o]btaining
information to collect on a judgment is a valid significant interest. Having
been assigned a substantial money judgment against SCC, Western has a right to discover facts about the
nature and location of assets to make that judgment more than a scrap of paper.” (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 243 Cal.App.4th at p. 755 [internal quotations omitted].) 
In addition,
the reply, Aaronoff states that she “timely served Responses,
which answered all of the 81 questions and produced documents to Plaintiff on
May 13, 2024, per this Court’s Order.” (Reply at p. 7:5-6.)[3]
Thus, it also appears that Aaronoff’s objections to the requests in the Subpoena may be
moot. 
In the motion, Aaronoff also notes that on
September 7, 2023, an “Application and Order for Appearance and Examination” was
filed requiring Aaronoff to appear and furnish information to aid in
enforcement of the money judgment. Aaronoff asserts
that “the Application and Order for Exam dated September 7, 2023” is
“unduly burdensome and intrusive of Defendant’s constitutional right to
privacy…” (Mot. at p. 10:15-17.) However, Aaronoff
does not explain why she contends the Application and Order for Appearance and
Examination is purportedly “unduly burdensome” or intrusive of Plaintiff’s
right to privacy. 
            Aaronoff
also asserts that “[i]n the event Plaintiff Olson does not agree to
withdraw or modify information requests in his subpoena, this motion requests a
protective order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1(a), wherein Defendant Aaronoff requests this Court quash the
demand and, alternatively in its discretion, issue a protective order that the
court require the subpoenaed records be afforded a reasonable period to
initially review those records, prior to production, in order to redact
personally sensitive and constitutionally protected information.” (Mot. at pp.
10:26-11:4.) The Court notes that Aaronoff does not
cite any legal authority supporting her request for such a protective order. Moreover,
as set forth above, Aaronoff states that she already “served Responses,
which answered all of the 81 questions and produced documents to Plaintiff on
May 13, 2024…” (Reply at p. 7:5-6.) 
The Court also notes that Aaronoff’s
notice of motion appears to indicate that Aaronoff seeks an order to “void any
other trial court proceedings of case# 19STVCV46503 and trial orders pending
the appellate court case #B321560.” (Mot. at p. 2:8-10.) It is unclear what
Aaronoff means when she seeks an order to “void” the above-referenced cases.
The Court denies such request.[4]  
Lastly, in the opposition, Plaintiff states that he seeks “reasonable
expenses and attorney fees pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.2(a) for opposing [the instant] motion.” (Opp’n at
p. 2:1-2.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), “[e]xcept as specified in
subdivision (c), in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision
(c) of Section 1987 or under Section
1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable
attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.” Plaintiff asserts that here, the
motion was made without substantial justification. The Court finds that
Aaronoff acted with substantial justification in presenting her position and
declines to award Plaintiff attorney’s fees.
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Aaronoff’s instant motion.

Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Aaronoff’s motion is denied
in its entirety. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this ruling.¿
 
DATED:  June 25, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


