 Case Number:  24TRCV01250    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer to Plaintiff’s ComplaintMoving Parties: Defendants Shane Goodman and Terry GoodmanResponding Party: Plaintiff Luis ArellanoRULINGThe court considered the moving papers and rules as follows: the demurrer is OVERRULED and the motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn April 11, 2024, Plaintiff Luis Arellano (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Shane Goodman (“Shane”) and Terry Goodman (“Terry”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence.On October 15, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On October 16, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to strike.As of December 3, 2024, no opposition has been filed.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn April 22, 2022, Shane was driving under the influence. (Complaint, p. 5.) Shane struck a curb, crashed into two cars, and rear-ended Plaintiff. (Complaint, p. 5.)Plaintiff alleges that he is entitled to punitive damages, as Shane was thirty-one years old and knew the potential consequences of drunk driving. (Complaint, p. 6.)Defendants now seek to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s second cause of action.LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.(Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.)Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendants demur to the negligence cause of action because it is fatally uncertain. Defendants seek to strike the request for punitive damages as Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to justify the request.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)A motion to strike is subject to a similar meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)Defense counsel declares that the parties met telephonically to discuss issues with the complaint, but they were unable to reach an agreement. The court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.B. Second Cause of Action for Negligence and Exemplary DamagesIn order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)Defendants demur to this cause of action, as Plaintiff has not alleged any facts supporting an award of punitive damages. The court notes, however, that a demurrer may not be directed at a portion of a cause of action. (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682.) When a portion of a cause of action is defective, a defendant may challenge it through a motion to strike. (Id. at pp. 1682-1683.)As Defendants’ demurrer is procedurally improper, Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.C. Motion to StrikeThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. §436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)Defendants seek to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint which seek or reference punitive damages. Defendants contend that the California Supreme Court has previously held that driving while intoxicated may warrant punitive damages only if there are additional facts supporting an inference that the driver acted in conscious disregard of another’s safety. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890; Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82.)The Taylor case is instructive with respect to punitive damages for driving under the influence. In Taylor, the court noted “we have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under §3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Taylor, supra, 24Cal.3d at p. 892.) Thus, the plaintiff’s allegations that the driver had a history of alcoholism and prior arrests for drunk driving created a reasonable inference that he acted in conscious disregard of others’ safety. (Id. at p. 896.) Notably, however, the Taylor court fell short of holding that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases where a defendant drives while intoxicated.In a subsequently decided case, the Dawes court held that mere allegations of drunk driving, without additional exacerbating facts, are not sufficient to establish that a defendant acted in conscious disregard of others’ safety. (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d at p. 323.) In Dawes, the petitioners alleged that the driver was zigzagging through lanes, driving in excess of 65 miles per hour in a designated 35 miles per hour zone in a busy public street. (Id. at p. 321.) Such allegations were sufficient to support an award of punitive damages. (Id. at p. 324.)Notably, Taylor and Dawes were both decided before the 1987 amendment to §3294, which added the requirement of “despicable” conduct to support an award of punitive damages under a conscious disregard standard. Under those heightened standards, it seems clear that allegations of drunk driving, absent additional facts, are insufficient to justify punitive damages.Here, the Complaint merely alleges that Shane, as a thirty-one-year-old, knew of the dangerous consequences of driving intoxicated. The Complaint lacks any factual allegations that rise to the level of conduct described in Taylor or Dawes. Without such exacerbating factual allegations, Plaintiff’s complaint does not warrant the imposition of punitive damages.Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.D. Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Given the liberal policy surrounding amendments, the court will grant Plaintiff leave to amend his complaint.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend.Defendants ordered to give notice of ruling.