  Case Number:  24TRCV00583    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  P Demurrer to Plaintiff’s ComplaintMoving Parties: Defendant GodlewskiResponding Party: Plaintiff McCaslinRULINGThe court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Moving Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn February 20, 2024, Plaintiff Stefanie Kohl (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Leslie Corrigan (“Corrigan”); Nationwide Life and Annuity Insurance Company (“Nationwide”); Liliana Gaspar (“Liliana”); Laszlo C. Gaspar (“Laszlo Jr.”); and DOES 1-20, inclusive allegingcauses of action for (1) Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Insurance Contract; (4) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Equitable Conversion; and (7) Restitution.On October 3, 2024, Defendants Corrigan and Nationwide (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 26, 2024. On December 2, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff is the surviving spouse of decedent Laszlo, who passed away on February 19, 2022. (Complaint, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff and Laszlo had children from prior marriages. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)Before Plaintiff and Laszlo married, Laszlo purchased two life insurance policies and named his two children, Liliana and Laszlo Jr., as beneficiaries. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Laszlo was the named insured, but the marital community made payments on the policies. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff also had a life insurance policy naming her daughter as the sole beneficiary. (Complaint, ¶ 14.)Plaintiff alleges that she and Laszlo had an agreement to change their respective policies and name each other as beneficiaries. (Complaint, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff changed her policy to name Laszlo as a beneficiary, but Laszlo forgot to change his. (Complaint, ¶ 15.)On April 8, 2022, Plaintiff telephonically reported Laszlo’s death to Nationwide through its agent, Corrigan, and informed Corrigan that she believed she was one of the beneficiaries of Laszlo’s policies. (Complaint, ¶ 17.) Corrigan made written note of Plaintiff’s contact information and claim on the benefits. (Complaint, ¶ 19.)Corrigan later called Plaintiff to inform her that she was not a beneficiary to either of Laszlo’s policies. (Complaint, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff informed Corrigan that she still believed she was entitled to a portion of the benefits. (Complaint, ¶ 22.) Corrigan told Plaintiff that she would file the claims for benefits with Nationwide. (Complaint, ¶ 23.)Plaintiff alleges that Nationwide intentionally or negligently ignored Plaintiff’s claim for benefits and paid out the entire disputed funds to the named beneficiaries, without first conducting an investigation. (Complaint, ¶ 25.)Plaintiff also alleges that Corrigan and Laszlo were involved in a romantic relationship, and Corrigan held personal dislike towards Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶¶ 26-27.)Moving Defendants now demur to all causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by Ins. Code section 10172 and Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts.LEGAL STANDARDA party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A party may also demur to a complaint on the grounds that the complaint is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A special demurrer for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.(Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) On demurrer, a court does “not accept contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Simonyan v. Nationwide Insurance Company of America (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 889, 895.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally, sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations pled to survive a demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff’s claims are all barred by Ins. Code section 10172, as Plaintiff never provided written notice to Nationwide’s home office of her claim to the benefits. Even if they were not barred, Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to state any cause of action. Further, Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from relitigating these issues as they were already argued in probate court.Opposing Party’s ArgumentThe court notes that the opposition was not timely filed. However, the court exercises its discretion to consider late papers, pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d).Moving Defendants have failed to meet their burden to establish collateral estoppel. Plaintiff also argues that it is premature to decide whether Ins. Code section 10172 applies because she has alleged that the payments were not made in accordance with the terms of the policy. Plaintiff contends that she has pleaded sufficient facts to support her first through fifth causes of action.Reply ArgumentMoving Defendants contend that the opposition is untimely and should not be considered. Plaintiff’s argument that the payments were not made in accordance with the terms of the policy are conclusory, and section 10172 still bars her complaint. Moving Defendants reiterate their arguments about collateral estoppel and Plaintiff’s failure to allege sufficient facts.Request for Judicial NoticeMoving Defendants request judicial notice of seven documents, each of which were filed in probate court. Pursuant to Evid. Code section 452, subd. (d), the court may take notice of the records of any court of this state.Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and ConferBefore filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer “in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) A motion to strike is subject to a similar meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)Defense counsel declares that he sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel but received no response. The court finds that the parties have not satisfied the meet and confer requirements. However, the court will still discuss the merits of the motion.B. Insurance Code Section 10172Ins. Code section 10172 reads, “[n]otwithstanding Sections 751 and 1100 of the Family Code and Section 249.5 of the Probate Code, when the proceeds of, or payments under, a life insurance policy become payable and the insurer makes payment thereof in accordance with the terms of the policy, or in accordance with the terms of any written assignment thereof if the policy has been assigned, that payment shall fully discharge the insurer from all claims under the policy unless, before that payment is made, the insurer has received, at its home office, written notice by or on behalf of some other person that the other person claims to be entitled to that payment or some interest in the policy.”Plaintiff’s own complaint alleges that the only named beneficiaries to Laszlo’s policies were his two children. Further, Plaintiff alleges that the only notice she provided to Nationwide of her claim was telephonic and directed at Corrigan. Plaintiff does not allege that she provided written notice to Nationwide’s home office. Accordingly, Moving Defendants were entitled to the statutory protections once Nationwide made payments in accordance with the terms of the policies.Plaintiff argues that the statutory bar should not apply because she has alleged that Nationwide did not make payments in accordance with the terms of the policy. She contends that the policies required that Nationwide first record Proof of Death for the Insured and proof of the claimant’s interest in the proceeds before dispensing payment. However, the court cannot consider these allegations as they were not raised in the complaint, nor did Plaintiff request judicial notice of the policies’ terms.Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not provided sufficient factual allegations to show that the statutory bar of Ins. Code section 10172 should not apply.Accordingly, Moving Defendants are entitled to the statutory protections. Moving Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED as to all causes of action.C. Collateral Estoppel“In the case of issue preclusion, it must appear that the first matter presented some issue that is necessary to the later claim or defense, and that the issue was actually litigated and necessarily decided. Ordinarily these matters will not appear on the face of the pleading, but they may be ascertainable from materials subject to judicial notice.” (Fireside Bank Cases (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1127.)If a plaintiff loses the first action, any issues actually litigated will be binding on him or her in the later action even though a separate cause of action is involved. (See Perez v. City of San Bruno (1980) 27 Cal.3d 875, 883–884.) Thus, if a plaintiff files a limited negligence case for his or her property damage and the jury finds the defendant not negligent, the jury’s finding may bar plaintiff’s subsequent personal injury action against that defendant for the same incident. (See Pratt v. Vaughan (1934) 2 Cal.App.2d 722, 723–724.)Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from relitigating the applicability of Ins. Code 10172 because the Probate Court made a final decision on the merits and determined that her claims were barred by the statute. Plaintiff argues in opposition that the litigated issues were not identical. Further, the petition was partially dismissed on jurisdictional grounds, and Moving Defendants cannot now assert that the Probate Court had jurisdiction to render a judgment on the merits. In reply, Moving Defendants point to RJN Exh. 4, p. 4, in which the Probate Court found that “Stefanie Kohl has not alleged a valid claim pursuant to Probate Code section 850(a)(2)(C) because she has not alleged that Decedent died in possession of, or holding title to, property claimed to belong to another. The Court also finds that Ms. Kohl has not alleged written notice “by or on behalf of” herself at Nationwide’s Home office, as required by Insurance Code section 10172.” Plaintiff did not revise such allegations, and the Probate Court sustained Nationwide’s demurrer without leave to amend. (RJN, Exh. 7.) Thus, Moving Defendants argue that the issue of Ins. Code section 10172 was already litigated, and the Probate Court determined that it did apply to Plaintiff’s claims.The court finds that the Exhibits provided do not contain enough information to determine whether the Probate Court ruled that the demurrer should be sustained specifically because of Ins. Code section 10172 or pursuant to Probate Code section 850. Exhibit 7 merely states that the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.Thus, the court cannot determine that collateral estoppel prevents Plaintiff from relitigating the issue.D. Motion to StrikeThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.) Moving Defendants seek to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages as she has not sufficiently pleaded fraud, malice, oppression, or conscious disregard for others’ safety.As Moving Defendants’ demurrer to all causes of action were sustained, Plaintiff has no basis to seek punitive damages. Accordingly, Moving Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED.E. Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”] The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Plaintiff alleges facts in her opposition which could support her assertion that her claims are not statutorily barred. Accordingly, the court GRANTS leave to amend.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Moving Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.Moving Defendants ordered to give notice of ruling.