  Case Number:  17STPB03862    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION OF DEFENDANTS FOR APPROVAL OF AUDIT REPORT AND ON OBJECTIONS
THERETO   
 
In re: Ruth
Williamson 2011 Trust dated August 11, 2011, Case No. 17STPB03862 (related to
Case Nos. 17STPB02381, YC071970 and YC071983)
Anne Farrell, et al.,
Petitioners and Plaintiffs, v. Thomas D. Williamson, et al., Respondents and
Defendants in these cases 
Hearing Date:
September 28, 2023, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION AND RELEVANT HISTORY
          On November
12, 2015, a Utah court, by Judge James Gardener, issued a one-hundred-and-ten-
page statement of decision in a case involving the parties herein concerning mismanagement
by Thomas Williamson (“Thomas”)[1] of
various entities and real property owned by the estate of George B. Williamson and
Ruth Williamson and his replacement by Anne Farrell and David Farrell.[2] These
entities were owned by the six so-called 101 Trusts - which were established in
2004 for estate and tax planning for each of the Williamsons’ six children. The
trusts were the owners of the entities. Thomas was also during the time in
question trustee of the 101 Trusts. 
          On April 10,
2017, Petitioners Anne, David, Katherine Black, Christopher Black, Henry Black
and Laura Black (together “Plaintiffs”) filed a petition in this Court to void
the purported 2011 Trust (concerning personal assets of the mother of Anne,
Katherine and Thomas, Ruth Williamson (held in a 2005 Trust) that are different
from those in the 101 Trusts.) 
          On July 26,
2018, this Court, by Judge Daniel Juarez, entered an order, based upon an ex
parte application of Plaintiffs, appointing R. Todd Neilson as the receiver
and temporary trustee to take charge of the above-referenced entities, as well
as of their books and records, following the sale by Thomas of what are
referred to as the Mobile Home Parks in Utah. 
          On October
29, 2018, Judge Juarez entered an order modifying the receivership, including instructing
the Receiver to audit the businesses and prepare a report.  
         On June 17,
2019, the receiver issued his 77-page audit report attaching 50 exhibits for
the period starting August 1, 2011 through the date of the receivership order. 
         On June 28,
2019, Judge Juarez denied Thomas’s objection to the audit he had brought by ex
parte application on June 27, 2019.  
         On September
23, 2020, Thomas filed an objection to the audit report. It appears these were
not filed as part of a motion and no hearing was held. 
         On October 7,
2020, Judge Juarez granted a motion of the receiver to make certain
distributions to beneficiaries, to which Thomas had filed opposition on September
24, 2020.
          On January
13, 2022, Judge Juarez granted a motion of the receiver to make certain
distributions to beneficiaries, to which Thomas had filed opposition on December
30, 2021.
          On March 2,
2022, Judge Juarez granted a motion of the receiver to make certain
distributions to beneficiaries.
          On July 5,
2022, a different Utah court, by Judge Patrick Corum, issued a thirty-two-page
statement of decision following a trial related to claims of elder abuse of
Ruth by Thomas, finding against Thomas on one claim.[3] 
          On July 18,
2023, this Court determined at a hearing related to a motion for further
distribution by the receiver that there was a dispute between the parties
related to whether the receivership could be terminated in view of issues
remaining concerning the audit report: specifically, whether the Court had
previously approved it in connection with earlier motions for distributions or
if those distributions were “without prejudice” to the Court hearing various
objections of Thomas to that report. The Court provided Thomas thirty days to
file a motion to address these issues.  
         On August 16,
2023, Thomas filed a motion for approval of the audit report but also raising
four objections to it that he asked the Court to sustain. The objections are as
follows:
1.      
That the receiver had not referenced significant
distributions by David to various beneficiaries on August 12, 2011 and
September 19, 2011.
2.      
That the Receiver had failed to comply with Utah
law in taking possession of certain Trust property in Utah and therefore had
incurred significant undue expense. 
3.      
That Thomas could not be liable as a trustee for
any wrongdoing where this action was filed more than one year after he resigned
as trustee based on a one-year Utah statute of limitation. 
4.      
That the Receiver expressed improper and
prejudicial opinions concerning Thomas that went beyond what the Court had
ordered in an audit. 
          On September
14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed Opposition to the motion. They contend initially
that this motion is improper where the Court has implicitly already approved
the report in granting two motions for distribution, that is now too late to
bring this motion after those distributions have been made, as well as that the
Court has approved numerous requests of the receiver for fees and expenses that
were premised upon the audit report (overruling objections by Thomas.[4])
Concerning the objections, Plaintiffs’ positions are as follows:
1.      
That there is no dispute that the receiver did
not account for the referenced distributions by David, that in principle there
is no objection to the receiver doing so; however, they do object to Thomas
receiving any credit therefor in view of his waiver of such claim pursuant to
the 2011 Settlement Agreement, as well as his relinquishment of such claim
during an earlier proceeding. Hence, there is an issue about whether it makes
sense for the receiver to undertake that work, cause greater expense and delay
final distributions.
2.      
 That the
Utah court upheld the permissibility of the receiver performing his work in
Utah, notwithstanding its earlier initial ruling. Thomas’s action in Utah in
this regard was dismissed.  
3.      
The audit report does not implicate what statute
of limitation may be applicable. 
4.      
The receiver’s stated opinions are permissible
conclusions based upon the facts he was able to determine through his audit –
that the order instructed him to conduct. 
          On September
14, 2023, the Receiver filed its position concerning the motion and objections.
Over the course of the receivership, he states that he has sold fifteen
properties for a total of almost $40 million, that there are no further assets
to be sold and that pursuant to court authorization he has made almost $30
million in distributions to beneficiaries. He currently holds just over $7
million, including $2.1 million held back pending Thomas executing an
indemnification related to possible tax consequences from the receiver making
certain distributions. He also notes he and professionals he has hired have
incurred just over $4 million in fees, most of which as been paid pursuant to
court authorization. 
          Further, the
Receiver notes that at least the second distribution motion “provides that the
underlying distributions were made without prejudice, thereby preserving the
rights of the Trusts to continue litigation against one another.”  
          His position
concerning the objections was as follows: 
1.      
That the Receiver not having been able to investigate
the distributions by David was due to the burglary of the office where the
records were located and Thomas’s recordkeeping. The Receiver did, however, take
these distributions into account. 
2.      
That the expense in the receivership was due to
actions by Thomas, as well as reconstruction of records that were taken from
the trust office.  
3.      
The Receiver defers to the Court. 
4.      
The court ordered audit report was based upon an
objective review of relevant information, including concerning actions by Thomas.

          On September
20, 2023, Defendants filed a Reply, together with further supporting
declarations.[5]
Therein, Thomas acknowledges the Court having ruled on his objections to the
fee requests and that he determined it was futile to continue to do so. He also
points out that the receiver’s motions clarified what he intended by bringing
the motions “without prejudice;” namely, as “to any of the parties’ rights and
remedies against each other. Specifically, the Receiver is not taking any
position related to the parties’ pending litigation and there is no intent to
affect any legal rights, claims or defenses whether related to the receivership
property or not.”  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Permitted Basis and Scope of Motion 
           This motion is mislabeled as one to approve
the audit report. The objections to the report effectively seek an order not
approving the report. Hence, for the reasons set forth below, the Court will
not deny the motion because that might infer the Court was not approving the
report. As also discussed below, however, the Court is not per se approving the
audit either: The Motion does not identify pursuant to what statute, rule or
other basis there is for the Court to approve or disapprove of the report. The
order itself also does not per se state a procedure for its approval, if such
was necessary. Hence, the Court looks to other aspects of the order for
guidance. 
          Though not
stated in the order, the Court infers that the principal purpose of the audit
report was to facilitate the Receiver managing and or liquidating the
underlying businesses and assets and in turn to make such distributions to
beneficiaries as the Court might authorize – consistent with the reasons
advanced for the Court establishing the receivership. Since completing his
audit, the Court has heard three motions of the receiver for distributions to
the beneficiaries, to two of which Thomas filed opposition. In turn, the
receiver has sought authorization for payment of his fees and expenses (to
which objections were also filed.) Further, upon completion of all receivership
business, the Receiver will file a motion for discharge that will likely
require an accounting for the Court’s approval that will presumably be based on
his audit.[6] It
is in connection with these requests that the order does contemplate that the
audit report is relevant: These requests are each governed by an applicable
statute pursuant to which the Court may potentially address any deficiencies in
the report, by way of objections, to the extent it has not done so already. 
          Moreover,
the order providing for an audit report also does not identify what use, if
any, is to be made of the report in connection with the underlying litigation –
as appears from the motion to be Thomas’s concern. For example, the order does
not state the audit report would be in lieu of any litigation a party may have
a right to pursue. Therefore, the Court wishes to avoid approval or disapproval
of the report outside the above-referenced statutorily authorized confines as
to do so may have the unintended effect of displacing or prejudicing any such litigation.[7]  
          The Court also
now addresses the argument as to whether Judge Juarez already implicitly or
explicitly ruled on the objections and or whether Thomas still has an
opportunity to assert these objections now. Thomas argues that prior references
to Judge Juarez making decisions on distributions as being “without prejudice”
means that approval of those distributions did not preclude his continuing to
object to the audit. By contrast, Plaintiffs argue that “without prejudice” means
only that the Court was not then ruling on any claim Thomas might permissibly later
assert. 
          The Court
finds that Judge Juarez intended to overrule the stated objections as they may
have pertained to the motions in front of him, since he granted them, but that
if there was some other claim that was not then necessary for his decisions
that he was presumably not intending to thereby rule those out.[8] The
Court finds insufficient evidence that Judge Juarez granted the motions on the
basis that he elected to not then address the arguments Thomas was
advancing. Indeed, Plaintiffs point out that at least on January 13, 2022 the
Court did not “reserve” on the objections but in fact expressly rejected them,
stating: “the Receiver has acted within its authority under the Receivership
Order.” Hence, this Court may not now belatedly revisit the very significant distributions
the Court has already approved to the extent those were premised upon the audit
report. To the extent the objections now repeat what Thomas asserted in
opposition to those motions, or fee requests, they are untimely and Thomas’s
remedy would have been to seek any possible appellate review of those rulings,
not to reassert them now that there is a different bench officer assigned to
hear this case who was not present to know precisely what the earlier assigned
judge may have intended. To the extent there are arguments Thomas did not previously
advance, those may still be relevant in connection with the Receiver’s motion
for discharge or in connection with the underlying pleadings. 
            Finally, the extended discussion (and
declarations) related to the effect of the October 11, 2011 Settlement Agreement
is not before the Court on this motion (except with respect to whether Thomas
waived a claim pertaining to the distributions by David.) The effect of the
Settlement Agreement on Plaintiffs’ underlying claims is a separate issue that
was bifurcated previously to be decided separately at a trial in November of
this year. Similarly, the varying lengthy accounts of what led to the
appointment of a receiver are also no longer at issue. The Court treats the
discussion as background. 
Objection No. 1
 
           The Receiver states he did take the
distributions by David into account in his report. Thomas does not show
otherwise. Thomas also does not present any evidence in his Reply to rebut
Plaintiffs’ claim that he waived any right to distributions by David. Where
there would be then no point in the receiver endeavoring to further consider
these transactions, given prior efforts, the Court finds this omission from the
audit to not be material. 
 
Overruled. 
 
Objection No. 2
 
          It appears that the initial concern of
Judge Kelly, a third judge in Utah handling these matters, related to ancillary
jurisdiction of Utah in issuing a temporary restraining order against the receiver,
was later satisfied: The Court denied Thomas’s request for a preliminary
injunction and granted the receiver’s petition for ancillary jurisdiction. Further,
the same Utah court ultimately granted the receiver’s motion to dismiss that
action. Thomas’s appeals from that dismissal were also dismissed or abandoned. 
          Given the foregoing, Thomas’s
objection is wholly without basis. It is not clear why Thomas did not disclose
this information in asserting this objection, as he should have. 
 
Overruled. 
 
Objection No. 3
 
          The Court recognizes that the audit
covers events - some of which go back to 2011. As discussed above, the audit report
is not a substitute for litigation. Whether Thomas has any further liability arising
from these events is beyond the scope of the audit. As a result, whether any
statute of limitation may be applicable is not now before the Court on this
motion solely concerning the audit. Thomas may pursue any defense based on
statutes of limitation grounds in such proceedings as he contends it would be
applicable (if still permissible.) 
 
Overruled. 
 
 
Objection No. 4 
 
          The opinion in question regarding
unsuccessful investments by Thomas is merely a conclusion the Receiver reached based
upon his detailed factual report as to Thomas’s management (which would include
investments) that led him to that conclusion. This is not a statement of undue
prejudice or bias unrelated to his report. The Receiver is entitled to express his
conclusion after conducting that audit. To not summarize those findings would itself
be ignoring why the Court issued an audit in the first place. Moreover, the
word “dubious” is not overly critical and merely expresses some skepticism –
where others might have less diplomatically reached a far worse conclusion. 
          The Receiver’s conclusion is also well
within the scope of his duties under the order because he then had to seek
approval for sale or liquidation of assets precisely because it flowed from his
determination that “Thomas should not resume financial control or management”
(for the reasons stated in his report.) 
          The Court rejects the opinion of
Bryan Moldo, notwithstanding his expertise on receivership issues, that the Receiver’s
opinion is unjustified.[9] Given
Thomas was the one in charge during the audit period, it obviously made sense
for the Receiver to focus primarily on his management to determine the state of
the properties in the receivership. Whether others were or were not involved was
not the focus of the audit even if that may be in issue at any future trial
that determines any liability or further distributions. Most significantly, Moldo
does not state why the Receiver’s conclusion is not supported by the underlying
information the Receiver provided. The Court finds nothing improper about the Receiver’s
relatively innocuous statement and believes counsel is seeking to distract the
Court from the important facts the receiver uncovered. The Court concurs that
it, not the Receiver, will make the final call on what consequences may arise
from the events in question. 
 
Overruled.  
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court overrules each of the objections of Thomas to the audit. 
 
DATED:  September__,
2023                                        
____________________________________
                                                                                                       
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                       
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


