


[1] The Court uses first names consistent with prior
practice herein, to avoid confusion among family members by using last names,
and without intending any disrespect. 


[2] This decision was affirmed on appeal.


[3] An appeal from this decision is pending. 


[4] The Court takes judicial notice of minute orders filed
April 19, 2019, two on May 31, 2019 (concerning different requests), September
9, 2020 and September 28, 2020. 


[5] Plaintiffs filed evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Vernon C. Jolley. As discussed below, the Court sustains the
objection that the subject of the declaration is irrelevant to the issues on
this motion. 


[6] Any application of the so-called “family looseness”
rule, if there is one, is premature at this point. The Court will need to
review the receiver’s final report to determine how any such rule might still
be relevant. 


[7] That said, the Court had previously inquired whether
the parties stipulated to any possible uses of the audit report as a means of
expediting any trial by way of an OSC filed May 24, 2023 and heard on July 6,
2023. The Court discharged the OSC after determining it would not be able to do
so. 


[8] Consistent therewith, the Receiver clarified in his second
distribution motion that he was not intending by seeking distributions to seek
rulings related to issues independent of the distributions. That said, permitting
the distributions may necessarily have impacted the parties’ positions. What
impact that might be would presumably be decided at the trial of the underlying
petition or related civil complaints. That the Receiver sought to remain
neutral does not also mean the Court’s decisions have no effect.  


[9]
 The Court
will not now reach the further issue Moldo presents concerning whether the
report exceeded the scope of what the Court had authorized. Admittedly, the
order is silent on what the report should address other than as concerns the
receivership properties. While in hindsight a petition for instructions might
have been useful if there was controversy about what the report should
encompass, the Court does not have any evidence from the receiver or other
parties on this concern or a transcript of what was stated at the hearing. This
issue is better addressed as an objection to approval of the receiver’s request
for discharge and final approval of his services.  
 

