  Case Number:  23STCV24281    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  11 Vela (23STCV24281)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           5/23/24
Time:                          11:00
am
Moving Party:           Harbor Rail Services of California,
Inc. (“Defendant” or “Harbor Rail”)
Opposing Party:        Arturo Vela (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The
hearing on Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is continued for
supplemental evidence and briefing as to the employment-contract issue.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Harbor Rail is a company that performs inspections and repairs for
railroad clients.  Plaintiff used to work
for Harbor Rail as a mechanic.  He
contends Harbor Rail subjected him and other current and former employees to
numerous wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, Harbor Rail moves to compel arbitration.  The main issue is whether the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) or the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) applies.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s
arbitration agreement is attached to declaration of Defendant’s chief
operations officer, Thomas Broderick, at exhibit 2.  The agreement states:
 
MUTUAL
AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE
 
Agreement to
Arbitrate Claims. Harbor Rail Services of California, Inc. and Coast Truck
Centers, and all of their related entities and subsidiaries (hereinafter
“Company”) and I (hereinafter “Employee”) voluntarily agree to the resolution
by arbitration of all claims, disputes, and/or controversies (collectively
“claims”), whether or not arising out of Employee’s employment or its
termination, that Company may have against Employee or that Employee may have
against Company, its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or against its
employees or agents in their capacity. The claims covered by this Arbitration
Agreement include, but are not limited to, claims for wages or other
compensation due; claims for breach of any contract or covenant (express or
implied); tort claims; claims for discrimination or harassment, including, but
not limited to, any federal or state civil rights laws, ordinances, regulations
or orders, based on charges of discrimination or harassment on account of race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, citizenship, national origin,
mental or physical disability, medical condition, genetic predisposition,
marital status, pregnancy or any other discrimination prohibited by such laws,
ordinances, regulations or orders; claims for benefits (except where an
employee benefit or retirement plan specifies that its claims procedures shall
culminate in an arbitration procedure different from this), and claims for
violation of any federal, state, or other governmental law, statute, regulation
or ordinance, except claims excluded below. 
 
Mediation. The
Company and Employee agree that they shall first attempt to resolve their
differences by voluntary, non-binding, mediation. The mediator shall be
selected as follows: The parties shall first attempt to select a mediator by
mutual agreement. If the parties cannot mutually agree, each party must
nominate a single potential mediator (a “Nominee”), and the Nominees shall
jointly select some other person to be the mediator. The mediator, and each
Nominee (if applicable), shall be either (a) a retired judge who presided in
the jurisdiction where the mediation will be held, or (ii) an attorney licensed
to practice law in the state where the mediation will take place. Each party in
such mediation shall bear his or her own costs and attorneys’ fees incurred in
connection with the mediation, provided, however, that the Company will pay the
costs of the mediation process, including payment of the fees of the mediator.
Neither party may initiate any arbitration or legal action prior to the
conclusion of the mediation. The location of the mediation shall be in the city
where Employee works or last worked for the Company. 
 
Class and
Representative Action Waiver. Except as otherwise required under applicable
law, Employee and Company expressly intend and agree that each will also forego
pursuing any covered dispute on a class, collective, or representative basis
and will not assert class, collective, or representative action claims against
the other in arbitration or otherwise. Nor will class or collective action
procedures apply pursuant to this Agreement. Employee and Company shall only
submit their own, individual claims in arbitration, and shall be entitled to
seek dismissal of any such class, collective, or representative claims and
otherwise assert this Agreement as a defense in any proceeding. The Company and
Employee further agree that any question regarding class or collective
arbitrability shall be decided by a court of law and not an arbitrator. 
 
This waiver does not
apply to representative actions under the California Private Attorneys General
Act or any class, collective, or representative claims that cannot be waived as
a matter of law. 
 
Claims Not
Covered by the Agreement. Claims that Employee may have for workers’
compensation or for unemployment compensation benefits, or that Company or
Employee may have for injunctive relief are not covered by this Agreement. If
either Company or Employee have more than one claim against the other, one or
more of which is not covered by this Agreement, such claims shall be determined
separately in the appropriate forum for resolution of those claims. Nothing in
this Agreement shall preclude the parties from agreeing to resolve claims not
covered by this Agreement pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement. This
Agreement does not cover and is inapplicable to claims which have been filed as
civil lawsuits in any court prior to the execution of this Agreement.
 
Required Notice
of Claims. All statutory claims for or related to employment discrimination
or harassment must be filed with the California Department of Fair Employment
and Housing and/or the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission within
the time limits set forth by applicable state and federal law, prior to being
submitted to arbitration, or such claims are waived. If Employee or Company
does not make a written request for arbitration within the limitations period
applicable to a claim under applicable federal or state law, the party has
waived its right to raise that claim, in any forum, arising out of that issue
or dispute. Written notice of a claim against Company, its subsidiaries,
affiliated entities, officers, directors, employees or agents shall be sent to
the then-current Company agent located at [insert contact information]. Written
notice of a claim against Employee shall be sent to Employee. 
 
Arbitration
Procedure. Company and Employee agree that, except as provided in this
Agreement, any arbitration shall be in accordance with the [FAA], 9 U.S.C. § 1,
et seq., in conformity with the procedures of the [CAA], California Code of
Civil Procedure § 1280, et seq. Employee shall initiate the arbitration process
by the delivery of a demand for arbitration on the then-current Company
representative located at [insert contact information], via certified mail
return receipt and within the time limits which would apply to the filing of a
civil complaint in court. Company shall initiate the arbitration process by the
delivery of a demand for arbitration on Employee via certified mail return
receipt and within the time limits which would apply to the filing of a civil
complaint in court. A late request will be void. 
 
Selection of
Arbitrator. The Arbitrator shall be selected as follows: The parties shall
first attempt to select a neutral arbitrator by mutual agreement. If the
Parties cannot mutually agree, each Arbitration Agreement Party must nominate a
single potential arbitrator (a “Nominee”), and the Nominees shall jointly
select some other person to be the Arbitrator. The Arbitrator, and each Nominee
(if applicable), shall be either (a) a retired judge who presided in the
jurisdiction where the arbitration will be held, or (ii) an attorney licensed
to practice law in the state where the arbitration is convened. 
 
Governing Law.
The Arbitrator shall apply the substantive law (and the law of remedies, if
applicable) of California, or federal law, or both, as applicable to the
claim(s) asserted. The Arbitrator shall have the authority to award all
remedies and relief that would otherwise have been available if the claim had
been brought by way of a civil complaint in court. The arbitration shall be
final and binding upon the parties. The Arbitrator should utilize the Federal
Rules of Evidence as a guide to the admissibility of evidence. The parties
retain the right to conduct a reasonable amount of discovery guided by the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and the Arbitrator shall have the power to
decide any discovery disputes between the parties. Either party, upon request
at the close of hearing, shall be given leave to file a post-hearing brief. The
time for filing such a brief shall be set by the Arbitrator. 
 
Location of
Arbitration. The parties agree that any arbitration shall take place in the
State of California in the county in which Employee works or worked for
Company, unless such venue is inconvenient to the majority of witnesses
expected to be necessary to the case or unless the parties agree to some other
locale. 
 
Arbitration Award.
Within ninety (90) days following the hearing and the submission of the matter
to the Arbitrator, the Arbitrator shall issue a written opinion and award which
shall be signed and dated. The Arbitrator’s award shall include factual
findings and the reasons upon which the award is based. Either party may bring
an action in any court of competent jurisdiction to compel arbitration under
this Agreement and to enforce an arbitration award. 
 
Arbitration Fees
and Costs. The cost of the Arbitrator and other incidental costs of
arbitration shall be borne by Company. The parties shall each bear their own
costs for legal representation in any arbitration proceeding, provided,
however, that the Arbitrator shall have the authority to require either party
to pay the fee for the other party’s representation during the arbitration, as
is otherwise permitted under federal or state law, as part of any remedy that
may be ordered.
 
Requirements for
Modification or Revocation. The Agreement to arbitrate shall survive the
termination of Employee’s employment. It can only be revoked or modified by a
writing signed by the parties that specifically states an intent to revoke or
modify this Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Sole and Entire
Agreement. This is the complete Agreement of the parties on the subject of
arbitration of disputes, except for any arbitration agreement in connection
with any retirement or benefit plan. This Arbitration Agreement supersedes any
prior or contemporaneous oral or written understanding on the subject. No party
is relying on any representations, oral or written, on the subject of the
effect, enforceability or meaning of this Arbitration Agreement, except as
specifically set forth in this Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Construction.
If any provision of this Agreement is adjudged to be void or otherwise
unenforceable, in whole or in part, such adjudication shall not affect the
validity of the remainder of the Agreement. 
 
Not an Employment
Agreement. This Arbitration Agreement is not, and shall not be construed to
create, any contract of employment, express or implied. Nor does this Agreement
in any way alter the “at-will” status of Employee’s employment. 
 
Voluntary
Agreement. Employee acknowledge that Employee have carefully read this
Arbitration Agreement, that Employee understand its terms, that all
understandings and agreements between Company and Employee relating to the
subjects covered in the Agreement are contained in it, and that Employee have
entered into the Agreement voluntarily and not in reliance on any promises or
representations by Company other than those contained in this Agreement. 
 
EMPLOYEE UNDERSTAND
THAT BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, COMPANY AND EMPLOYEE HAVE BOTH WAIVED THEIR
RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL AND THEIR RIGHT TO APPEAL WITH RESPECT TO ALL CLAIMS
COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT. Employee initials: _______ 
 
EMPLOYEE FURTHER
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN GIVEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS THIS
AGREEMENT WITH EMPLOYEE’S PRIVATE LEGAL COUNSEL AND HAS AVAILED HIMSELF OR
HERSELF OF THAT OPPORTUNITY TO THE EXTENT EMPLOYEE WISHES TO DO SO.
 
(Broderick Decl., Ex. 2, pp. 1-3,
emphasis in original.)
 
Plaintiff signed the agreement on
May 10, 2021.  (See id. at Ex. 2, p. 3;
see also Lux Decl., ¶ 1; Opposition, p. 2.)
 
Assent is uncontested.
 
The Court finds that these terms
and facts suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate.
 
FAA
 
Defendant’s
agreement provides that “any arbitration” conducted pursuant to the
agreement “shall be” governed by the FAA. 
(Broderick Decl., Ex. 2, p. 2.)
 
Despite
this language, Plaintiff contends the Court should find the FAA inapplicable –
and apply the CAA instead – based on an exception.  He claims the FAA does not apply to railroad
employees and transportation workers.  He
asserts that Defendant employed him as a railroad employee or transportation
worker and that his work duties “played a necessary role in the free flow of
goods in interstate commerce.” 
(Opposition, pp. 3-7.)
 
Defendant
claims the exception is unsatisfied because Defendant’s railroad clients never
employed Plaintiff, and he never worked as a railroad employee or
transportation worker.  (See Motion, pp.
8-11.)
 
Section
1 of the FAA “exempts . . . ‘contracts of employment of seamen, railroad
employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or interstate
commerce[]’” – i.e., transportation workers – “from the statute’s ambit[.]”  (Southwest Airlines Co. v. Saxon
(2022) 596 U.S. 450, 454 (“Southwest”).) 
“The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of demonstrating that
the exemption applies.”  (Performance
Team Freight Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
1233, 1241.)
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff fails to meet his burden.  To establish the exemption, Plaintiff must show that Defendant’s
agreement is “both a ‘contract of employment’ and one entered into with a ‘worker’
of the type described in” section 1.  (Amos
v. Amazon Logistics, Inc. (4th Cir. 2023) 74 F.4th
591, 596.)  However, Defendant’s
agreement states that it “is not, and shall not be construed to
create, any contract of employment, express or implied.”  (Broderick Decl., Ex. 2, p. 3, emphasis
added.)  It is the only contractual
document in the record.  Indeed, there is
no employment contract attached to Plaintiff’s two pieces of evidence, nor is
one discussed.  (See Vela Decl., ¶¶ 1-6;
see also Lux Decl., ¶¶ 1-4.)  On the
current record, Plaintiff fails to show that Defendant’s agreement should be
interpreted as part of an employment contract as opposed to a standalone
agreement.
 
The Court intends to continue the hearing to give Plaintiff a
chance to supplement the record and to allow the parties to brief this issue. 
 
The
next question is whether Plaintiff qualified as a railroad employee.  The answer appears to be no.  Defendant employed Plaintiff; the railroad
clients did not.  (See Vela Decl., ¶ 2;
see also Broderick Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, 5-6.) 
He cannot rely on the independent-contractor contract between Defendant
and Pacific Harbor Line to prove his alleged railroad-employee status.  (See Amos, supra, 74 F.4th
at 596.)
 
The
last question is whether Plaintiff qualified as a transportation worker.  This is a closer call.  “‘Transportation workers’ are those workers
‘engaged in the movement of goods in interstate commerce’” (Knight, supra, at ¶
5:58 [citing Southwest, supra, 596 U.S. 450]), but a qualification
exists.  “[T]he more related to the
transportation industry an enterprise is, the less necessary it becomes for the
employee to be directly transporting goods.” 
(Garrido v. Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
833, 840.)  Defendant’s business is
substantially related to the railroad industry. 
(See, e.g., Broderick Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) 
Defendant hired Plaintiff to do inspections and mechanic work on
Defendant’s behalf for the railroad clients. 
(See id. at ¶ 6.)  Given these
facts, Plaintiff’s burden is met, even though he did not transport goods across
state lines.
 
In
summary, the Court: 
 
* continues
the hearing for supplemental evidence and briefing as to the
employment-contract issue; 
 
* finds
Plaintiff’s burden unmet as to the railroad-employee issue; and 
 
* finds
Plaintiff’s burden met as to the transportation-worker issue.
 
Class
Waiver
 
Plaintiff
claims the agreement’s class waiver is unenforceable under Gentry v.
Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 459.  (See Opposition, pp. 7-11.)
 
This
issue is premature.  It will not be ripe
unless and until the FAA-exemption issue is resolved, and only if it is
resolved in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
Stay
of Arbitrable Claims
 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to litigate the nonarbitrable claims first and to stay
arbitration of the arbitrable claims. 
(See id. at pp. 11-13.)
 
This
issue is also premature.
 
 
 
 