  Case Number:  21STCV46483    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




romina zerpa

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
walmart, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV46483




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ demurrer to second amended
  complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Walmart Inc., Walmart Stores,
Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc., Tiffani Medina-Khuu (erroneously sued as
Tiffani Khuu-Medina), and Katherine Whatley
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Romina Zerpa
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Romina Zerpa (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint in this action on September 1, 2023, against defendants
Walmart, Inc., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Wal-Mart Associates Inc. (together, the
“Walmart Defendants”), Tiffani Medina-Khuu (“Medina-Khuu”)[1]
and Katherine Whatley[2]
(“Whatley”) (collectively, “Defendants”). 
Defendants now move the court for an order sustaining their demurrer to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for harassment.
The court sustains defendants Medina-Khuu and Whatley’s demurrer to
the second cause of action for harassment because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Galvan v. Dameron
Hospital Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 563 [elements of prima facie
claim of harassment].) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that Medina-Khuu subjected Plaintiff to unwelcome harassment based
on her sex and gender.  (SAC ¶ 39
[Medina-Khuu harassed Plaintiff and created a hostile work environment based on
her sex and gender]; Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 563)  Although Plaintiff has alleged that
Medina-Khuu “grabbed [Plaintiff’s] waist from behind for no necessary reason
other than to harass her based on her sex and gender because of her history as
[a] victim of domestic violence,” Plaintiff did not allege facts establishing
that this contact was based on her sex or gender, and the court is not required
to accept Plaintiff’s conclusion that this act was committed to harass her
based on her protected characteristics.  (SAC
¶ 32; Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078
[the demurrer does not accept as true “conclusions of law or fact”].)  
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that defendant Whatley (1) subjected to Plaintiff to unwelcome
harassment (2) based on her sex and gender, alleging only, in conclusory
fashion, that Whatley harassed her and created a hostile work environment
because she told Plaintiff to “relax” and ignore the customers and required her
to work the front of the store.  (SAC
¶ 40; Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 563.) 
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a
plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)¿ The court finds that Plaintiff has not
met her burden to articulate how she can amend her second cause of action to
render it sufficient against defendants Medina-Khuu and Whatley
and therefore sustains the demurrer as to those defendants without leave to
amend. 
The court overrules Walmart Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause
of action for harassment because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiff has pleaded sufficient facts establishing that
Walmart Defendants may be responsible for the acts of nonemployees under the
Fair Employment and Housing Act because she has pleaded that nonemployees
subjected her to harassment based on her sex or gender, for which Walmart
Defendants may be liable.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at
p. 563; Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1); M.F. v. Pacific Pearl Hotel
Management LLC (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 693, 702 [“the language of [section
12940, subdivision (j)(1)] provides for liability whenever an employer (1)
knows or should know of sexual harassment by a nonemployee and (2) fails to
take immediate and appropriate remedial action (3) within its control”].) 
Plaintiff has alleged that Walmart Defendants’ customers subjected her
to harassment on the basis of her sex or gender by routinely yelling at her,
acting aggressively, and directing gender-based profanities toward her.  (SAC ¶¶ 31, 34.)  The court finds that the use of gender-based
profanities directed to Plaintiff constitutes harassment on the basis of her
sex or gender. The court notes that, in their moving papers, Walmart Defendants
have argued that the mere use of that term does not necessarily constitute
harassment because of sex, relying on Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television
Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 282 (Lyle).  However, the Lyle Court stated that
(1) “a hostile work environment sexual harassment claim is not established
where a supervisor or coworker simply uses crude or inappropriate language in
front of employees . . . , without directing sexual innuendos or
gender-related language toward a plaintiff or toward women in general[,]” and
(2) “[i]n this connection, it has been cautioned the term ‘bitch’
is not so sex-specific and derogatory that its mere use necessarily constitutes
harassment because of sex.”  (Lyle,
supra, 38 Cal.4th at p. 282 [emphasis added].)  Here, Plaintiff has not alleged that the use
of this gender-based term was simply used “in front of” her, but rather, was
directed toward her specifically.  (Ibid.;
SAC ¶¶ 31 [Walmart customers would “call her a ‘bitch’”] [emphasis
added], 34.)  The court notes that this
term “is not a neutral word in general” and, when used on its own “as a
derogatory epithet directed against women[,]” “the word’s primary function is
to express contempt for a woman or women in general.”  (Pantoja v. Anton (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 87, 119.)  The court
therefore finds that Plaintiff’s allegations that Walmart Defendants’ customers
directed the gender-based profanity constitutes harassment on the basis of sex.[3]  
The court also notes that Walmart Defendants have argued that they,
and their supervisors, had no control over the conduct of its customers and did
not have any ability to stop the harassment. 
(Demurrer, p. 10:21-23.)  However,
this fact was not alleged in the Second Amended Complaint and Walmart
Defendants have not pointed to any allegations establishing that they
appropriately responded or could not do so. 
Finally, the court notes that, in reply, Walmart Defendants assert
that the second cause of action is based on three alleged violations of three
separate primary rights, such that they are actually three separate causes of
action.  Thus, Walmart Defendants state
that, “to the extent that the Court finds that Plaintiff states a cause of
action for one protected attribute, but not others, the Court must still
sustain the demurrer as to each of the individual claims for which Plaintiff
does not state sufficient facts.” 
(Reply, p. 3:7-15.)  But Walmart
Defendants, in their moving papers, did not (1) move the court for an order
sustaining their demurrer to the second cause of action on the ground of
uncertainty since it attempts to allege three harassment causes of action in
one, or (2) expressly state, so as to give Plaintiff notice, that they were
requesting that the court (i) find that the second cause of action to be
alleging three separate causes of action and therefore (ii) sustain their
demurrer to each separate claim.  Thus,
the court does not make a ruling as to whether Plaintiff has alleged facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for harassment on the basis of
disability since the court has found, as set forth above, that she has alleged
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for harassment on the basis of
sex or gender.  (PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie
to a portion of a cause of action”].) 
ORDER
            The court sustains defendants
Tiffani Medina-Khuu and Katherine Whatley’s demurrer to plaintiff Romina
Zerpa’s second cause of action for harassment without leave to amend.
            The court overrules defendants
Walmart, Inc., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Wal-Mart Associates Inc.’s demurrer to
plaintiff Romina Zerpa’s second cause of action for harassment.
            The court orders defendants Tiffani
Medina-Khuu and Katherine Whatley to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 22, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


