 Case Number:  22STCV25303    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




laundrylux funding services,
   llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
cleotilda ortiz

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV25303




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff and cross-defendant’s motion to
  dismiss cross-complaint for forum non conveniens
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Laundrylux Funding Services, LLC 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants and cross-complainants Cleotilde
Ortiz and Jose Alberto Castro
Motion to Dismiss Cross-Complaint for Forum Non Conveniens
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff and cross-defendant Laundrylux Funding Services, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order dismissing the Cross-Complaint filed
by defendants and cross-complainants Jose Alberto Castro and Cleotilde Ortiz
(“Defendants”) pursuant to the doctrine of forum non conveniens. 
“When
a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state,
the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any
conditions that may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿410.30, subd.
(a).)  “‘Section 410.30 is a codification of the doctrine of forum non
conveniens [citation], but the principles governing enforcement of a forum
selection clause are not the same as those applicable to motions based on forum
non conveniens.  [¶]  In California, “forum selection clauses are
valid and may be given effect, in the court’s discretion and in the absence of
showing that enforcement of such a clause would be unreasonable.” 
[Citation.]  [¶]  The burden of proof is on the plaintiff, and the
factors involved in traditional forum non conveniens analysis do not
control.  [Citation.]  “Instead, the forum selection clause is
presumed valid and will be enforced unless the plaintiff shows that enforcement
of the clause would be unreasonable under the circumstances of the case.” 
[Citations.]’”  (Korman v. Princess Cruise Lines, Ltd. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 206, 213.)  
First, the
court finds that Plaintiff has shown that the parties entered into an agreement
that includes a mandatory forum selection clause. 
“In
a contract dispute in which the parties’ agreement contains a forum selection
clause, a threshold issue in a forum non conveniens motion is whether the forum
selection clause is mandatory or permissive.”  (Animal Film, LLC v.
D.E.J. Productions, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471; Korman, supra,
32 Cal.App.5th at p. 215.)  “A clause is mandatory if it requires the
parties to litigate their disputes exclusively in the designated forum, and it
is permissive if it merely requires the parties to submit to jurisdiction in
the designated forum.”  (Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 141, 147, n. 2.)  “A mandatory clause ordinarily is ‘given
effect without any analysis of convenience; the only question is whether
enforcement of the clause would be unreasonable.’  But, if ‘the clause
merely provides for submission to jurisdiction and does not expressly mandate
litigation exclusively in a particular forum, then the traditional forum non conveniens
analysis applies.  [Citation.]’” (Animal
Film, LLC, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 471.)  
Plaintiff
has submitted a copy of the “Secured Promissory Note and Agreement” dated March
28, 2018, entered into by and between Defendants (as “Maker[s]”), on the one
hand, and Plaintiff (as “Lender”), on the other hand (the “Note”).  (Soloway Decl., Ex. A, Note, p. 1.)  The Note sets forth the following forum
selection clause:  “In any litigation
with [the] Holder [of the Note], whether or not arising out of or relating to
this Note: . . . (C) Maker and all Guarantors irrevocably submit to the
jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and of the United States
having jurisdiction in any of the following counties within the State of New
York: New York, Queens, Kings, Bronx, and/or Nassau . . . .  Maker and all Guarantors agree not to bring
any action or other proceeding with respect to this Note or with respect to any
of its obligations hereunder in any court other than the aforementioned courts
unless such courts of the State of New York and of the United States determine
that they do not have jurisdiction in the matter.” (Soloway Decl., Ex. A,
§ 12; Mot., p. 3:12-21.) 
The court
finds that the Note’s forum selection clause is mandatory because, in asserting
that the makers of the Note (i.e., Defendants) “agree not to bring any action
or other proceeding  . . . in any court other
than the aforementioned courts” unless those courts determine that they do
not have jurisdiction, the clause (1) goes beyond merely requiring the parties
to submit to jurisdiction in the designated forum and (2) instead designates
certain courts to be the exclusive forum for any litigation arising out of the
Note or Defendants’ obligations (as the makers) thereunder.  (Soloway Soloway Decl., Ex. A, § 12
[emphasis added]; Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147,  n. 2 [explaining difference between mandatory
and permissive clauses].)  
Second, the
court finds that (1) Defendants have shown that their action involves
substantive unwaivable rights to a trial by jury and therefore (2) Plaintiff
has the burden to show that litigating Defendants’ claims in the foreign forum
will not diminish the substantive rights afforded to Defendants under
California law.
“‘When
a case involves a mandatory forum selection clause, it will usually be given
effect unless it is unfair or unreasonable.  [Citation.]’”  (Korman,
supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)  “The party opposing enforcement
of a forum selection clause ordinarily ‘bears the “substantial” burden of
proving why it should not be enforced.’”  (Verdugo, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147 [emphasis in original].)  “That burden, however,
is reversed when the claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights created by
California statutes.  In that situation, the party seeking to enforce the
forum selection clause bears the burden to show litigating the claims in the
contractually-designated forum ‘will not diminish in any way the substantive
rights afforded . . . under California law.’”  (Ibid., and at p.
145 [“the burden is reversed when the underlying claims are based on statutory
rights the Legislature has declared to be unwaivable”]; G Companies
Management, LLC v. LREP Arizona, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 342, 350
[quoting Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147].)  
The court
notes that Defendants’ Cross-Complaint, filed on January 8, 2024, does not
appear to include a demand for a jury trial. 
However, on March 3, 2023, the court issued a minute order stating that
Defendants demanded a jury trial.  (Mar.
3, 2023 Order, p. 1.) Thereafter, on March 6, 2023, Defendants filed a “Notice
of Posting of Jury Fees,” informing the parties and the court that Defendants
submitted a jury fee deposit in the amount of $150.  (Mar. 6, 2023 Notice of Posting of Jury Fees,
p. 1:21-25.)  Here, the Note includes a
provision stating that “all parties to this Note and the following irrevocable
Guaranty expressly waive trial by jury . . . .” 
(Soloway Decl., Ex. A, Note, § 12; Opp., p. 2:10-12 [quoting
Note].)  Thus, Defendants contend that
enforcing the forum selection clause in this action would be contrary to
California’s public policy to protect the right to a jury trial. 
“[B]ecause
the right to jury trial in California is a fundamental right that may only be
waived as prescribed by the Legislature, courts cannot enforce predispute
agreements to waive a jury trial.”  (Handoush
v. Lease Finance Group, LLC (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 729, 737-737, rev. dism.
August 12, 2020.)  The court finds that,
by demanding a trial by jury on March 3, 2023 and posting jury fees in
accordance with that demand on March 6, 2023, Defendants have requested a trial
by jury in this action, including on the claims alleged in their
Cross-Complaint.  Plaintiff therefore has
the burden to show that litigating those claims in New York will not diminish
Defendants’ rights under California law. 
(Id. at p. 739 [holding that, “because enforcement of the forum
selection clause here has the potential to contravene a fundamental California
policy of zealously guarding the inviolate right to a jury trial, which is
unwaivable by predispute agreements, [the moving defendant] bears the burden of
showing that litigation in New York ‘will not diminish in any way [the
plaintiff’s] substantive rights . . . under California law’”] [internal
citation omitted].) 
Third, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show that enforcement of
the forum selection clause to require Defendants to submit their claims to the
foreign forum (i.e., the courts in New York) will not diminish Defendants’
unwaivable rights afforded to them under California law.  (Verdugo, supra, f237
Cal.App.4th at p. 157.) 
“As
explained above, a defendant seeking to enforce a mandatory forum selection
clause [in an action based on unwaivable rights] bears the burden to show
enforcement will not in any way diminish the plaintiff’s unwaivable statutory
rights.  By definition, this showing requires the defendant to compare the
plaintiff’s rights if the clause is not enforced and the plaintiff’s rights if
the clause is enforced.  Indeed, a defendant can meet its burden only by
showing the foreign forum provides the same or greater rights than California,
or the foreign forum will apply California law on the claims at issue.”  (Verdugo,
supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.)  
Plaintiff
did not show that enforcement of the forum selection clause would not
substantially diminish Defendants’ rights under California law because
Plaintiff did not show that the predispute waiver will not apply to each of
Defendants’ legal causes of action. 
Although Plaintiff has shown that the predispute jury waiver provision
may not be applicable to the second cause of action for fraud or intentional
misrepresentation, Plaintiff did not show that the predispute jury waiver
provision would be inapplicable to Defendants’ other causes of action, on which
they would be entitled to a jury trial (i.e., the causes of action for breach
of contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing).  (China Dev. Indus. Bank v. Morgan Stanley
& Co. Inc. (2016) 86 A.D. 3d 435, 437-438 [“the motion court properly
concluded that the jury waiver provision in the agreement was inapplicable to
the fraudulent inducement cause of action”]; Raedeke v. Gibraltar Sav. &
Loan Assn. (1974) 10 Cal.3d 665, 671 [a suit to recover damages for “breach
of contract is an action at law in which a right to jury trial ordinarily
exists”].)  Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown that enforcing the forum selection clause and requiring
Defendants to litigate their claims in New York would not substantially
diminish the substantive rights (i.e., their right to jury trial) afforded to them
in California. 
Fourth, the court notes that Plaintiff has argued that Defendants
should be estopped from asserting that forum selection clause in the Note is
unenforceable.  (Mot., pp. 5:26-6:1;
Reply, p. 2:9-11.)  However, Plaintiff
did not meet its burden to show that (1) each element of judicial estoppel has been
satisfied and (2) the court should exercise its discretion to apply the
doctrine here.  (Victrola 89, LLC v.
Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 357 [elements of judicial
estoppel]; Id. at pp. 357-358 [“‘[e]ven if the necessary elements of
judicial estoppel are satisfied, the trial court still has discretion to not
apply the doctrine’”] [internal citation omitted].) 
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff has
not met its burden to show that litigating the claims alleged in Defendants’
Cross-Complaint will not diminish the substantive rights afforded to Defendants
under California law.  The court
therefore exercises its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s motion to dismiss the
Cross-Complaint pursuant to the doctrine of forum non conveniens. 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff and
cross-defendant Laundrylux Funding Services, LLC’s motion to dismiss
cross-complaint for forum non conveniens. 
            The court orders defendants and
cross-complainants Jose Alberto Castro and Cleotilde Ortiz to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 22, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court