 Case Number:  23STCV15662    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JULIA HERNANDEZ BALDERAS, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
TOYOTA MOTOR SALES, U.S.A., INC.; and DOES 1 through 10,
  inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV15662
 Hearing Date:   2/22/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Toyota
  Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration.



 
 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Julia Hernandez Balderas sues Defendant Toyota Motor Sales,
U.S.A., Inc. (TMS) and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a July 6, 2023 Complaint
alleging claims of (1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section
1793.2, (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (3)
Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.2, (4) Breach of
Express Written Warranty [Civil Code Section 1791.2 Subdivision (a); Section
1794], and (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability [Civil Code
Section 1791.1; Section 1794].
The claims arise from allegations that on January 16, 2022, Plaintiff
purchased a 2022 Toyota Tunder (Vehicle) that was manufactured and/or
distributed by TMS. Pursuant to this purchase, Plaintiff received an express
written warranty in which TMS undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or
performance of the Vehicle or to provide compensation if there was a failure in
utility or performance for a specified period of time. TMS breached that
warranty and other statutory duties when it and its authorized repair
facilities failed to conform various defects in the Vehicle within a reasonable
number of attempts and did not repurchase or replace the Vehicle. These defects
include defective body, powertrain, safety, electrical, braking, and noise
systems.
Motion Before the Court
On September 21, 2023, Defendant
TMS filed a motion to compel binding arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims. The
motion is premised on an arbitration provision in the purchase agreement for
the Vehicle (the RISC), an agreement that was only signed by Plaintiff
Hernandez Balderas and non-party DWWCT LLC.
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff
opposed TMS’s motion.
On February 9, 2024, TMS replied to
Plaintiff’s opposition.
Defendant TMS’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Per Defendant TMS’s request, the
Court takes judicial notice of the Complaint in this action. (Mot., RJN, p. 1;
Mot., Ameripour Decl., Ex. 1 [copy of Complaint]; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd.
(d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration
Order
Compelling Binding Arbitration: DENIED.
I.
Standing –
Introduction
Defendant
TMS moves to compel arbitration of this action pursuant to an arbitration
clause in the RISC. Though TMS is not a signatory to this sales contract—only
Plaintiffs and DWWCT LLC signed—TMS cites two doctrines in support of standing
to invoke the RISC’s arbitration clause: third-party beneficiary status; and
equitable estoppel. (Mot., pp. 5-10; Mot., Ameripour Decl., Ex. 2.)
II.
Third-Party
Beneficiary
“‘A third[-]party
beneficiary is someone who may enforce a contract because the contract is made
expressly for his benefit.’” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017)
18 Cal.App.5th 295, 301 (Jensen); see also Civ. Code, § 1559 [“A
contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person, may be enforced by
him …”].) A person “only incidentally or remotely benefited” from a contract is
not a third-party beneficiary. (Lucas v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d 583,
590.) To show the contracting parties intended to benefit it, a third party
must show that, under the express terms of the contract at issue and any other
relevant circumstances under which the contract was made: (1) “the third party
would in fact benefit from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the
contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3)
permitting the third party to enforce the contract “is consistent with the
objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting
parties.” (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)
Defendant TMS
argues that “[r]eading the contract as a whole, it is clear TMS is an intended
third-party beneficiary of the arbitration provision because it falls within
the class of persons or entities for whom the arbitration provision was
intended.” More specifically, TMS argues that “the claims against TMS arise out
of and relate to not only the relationship between the parties, but Plaintiffs’
purchase and the condition of the Vehicle, given that Plaintiffs’ Claims arise
out of and relate to the [RISC] and the ‘resulting’ warranty relationship that
followed Plaintiffs’ execution of the [RISC].” TMS also argues that
“Plaintiffs’ claims necessarily rely on the condition of the vehicle and TMS’s
alleged liability for the alleged defects with the vehicle.” (Mot., pp. 5-6.)
The Court
disagrees.
A reading of the
entire arbitration provision leads the Court to conclude that only Plaintiff
and DWWCT LLC or its “employees, agents, successors or assigns” benefit from
and have the ability to request an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims arising out of issues related to the Vehicle such that (1) TMS is not
intended to benefit from the Vehicle’s sales contract, (2) the sales contract
exhibits no purpose to provide a benefit to TMS, and (3) permitting TMS to
enforce the contract is beyond the objectives of the sales contract and
reasonable expectations of Plaintiffs and DWWCT LLC. (See Mot., Ameripour
Decl., Ex. 2, Sales Contract, p. 7, Arbitration Provision; see also Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC, supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 630.) This is because, as
drafted, the sales contract’s arbitration provision only allows Plaintiffs and DWWCT
LLC or its “employees, agents, successors or assigns” to submit to arbitration
either (1) claims related to Plaintiffs’ purchase or the condition of the
Vehicle or (2) claims related to any relationship with a third party that
resulted from the purchase or condition of the Vehicle. Such a framework, at
most, incidentally benefits TMS insofar as DWWCT LLC could perhaps submit to arbitration
Plaintiff’s claim against TMS, but where TMS itself does not have the power to
invoke the arbitration provision in the sales contract. (See Ford Motor
Warranty Cases (Ochoa) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1338-1340 [discussing Goonewardene
elements and reaching similar conclusion], review granted Jul. 19, 2023,
S279969 [532 P.3d 270].) As persuasively reasoned by the court of appeal with
respect to another manufacturer, to permit TMS to invoke the RISC’s arbitration
clause based on third-party beneficiary status would mean that “any nonparties
with whom [Plaintiffs] might have a dispute relating to the vehicle or its
purchase, including parties whose existence or relationship [Plaintiffs] could
not have contemplated, could claim they are intended beneficiaries of the
arbitration agreement simply because they would benefit from arbitration.” (Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 974, review granted Sep. 20,
2023, S281237 [2023 WL 6151774] (Montemayor).)
Based on these
determinations, the Court finds that TMS lacks standing to enforce the
arbitration clause in the Vehicle’s sales contract as a third-party
beneficiary.
III.
Equitable
Estoppel
Under the doctrine
of equitable estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’
with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior
Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) The doctrine applies in either of
two circumstances: (1) when the signatory must rely on the terms of the written
agreement containing the arbitration clause in asserting its claims against the
nonsignatory or (2) when the signatory alleges “substantially interdependent
and concerted misconduct” by the nonsignatory against a signatory and the
alleged misconduct is “founded in or intimately connected with the obligations
of the underlying agreement.” (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 218-219.) At bottom, “the linchpin for equitable estoppel is
equity—fairness.” (Id. at p. 220.) A nonsignatory seeking to enforce an
arbitration agreement has the burden to establish at least one of these
circumstances applies. (Jones v. Jacobson (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1, 16.)
Here, TMS makes a
number of arguments in favor of a finding of equitable estoppel. (Mot., pp.
6-10.) The Court finds none of these availing.
In Ochoa—cited
only for its persuasive value—the court of appeal found that claims by a
signatory vehicle purchaser against the vehicle’s manufacturer did not arise
from the sales contract for the purchase of the vehicle because the claims did
not rely on the sales contract insofar as “[t]he sale contracts include[d] no
warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle sold, nor any
promise of repairs or other remedies in the event problems ar[o]se” and where
“California law does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four
corners of a retail sale[s] contract as part of the sale[s] contract.” (Ochoa,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1335-1336.)
The Court agrees
with this reasoning and notes that, here, the Complaint’s claims arise from the
SBA, not terms contained in the Vehicle’s sales contract. (See Complaint, ¶¶
20-21, 26-27, 30, 33, 37-39, Prayer, ¶¶ c, e.)
This reasoning is
in line with Montemayor—also cited for its persuasive value—where the
court of appeal found that the plaintiffs’ claims there were not inextricably
intertwined with the vehicle’s sales contract as to permit the non-signatory
manufacturer to invoke the arbitration clause through the doctrine of equitable
estoppel. (Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 970.) The
court reasoned that “the fact the [plaintiffs] purchased the defective vehicle
from [a signatory dealer] pursuant to the sales contract, and as a result of
their purchase … received separate express warranties from [the non-signatory
manufacturer], d[id] not mean their causes of action against [the manufacturer]
based on those express warranties [we]re founded in the sales contract.” (Ibid.)
Separately, the
Court notes that the circumstances in Felisilda differed from those
before this Court and before the Courts in Ochoa and Montemayor.
In Felisilda, the plaintiffs purchased an automobile pursuant to a sales
contract that contained an arbitration clause and later sued their vehicle’s
nonsignatory manufacturer and the signatory dealership. Then, the dealership
moved to compel arbitration, which the trial court granted, after which the
plaintiffs dismissed the dealership from the action and arbitrated the action
against the manufacturer. The plaintiffs ultimately lost before the arbitrator
and had judgment rendered against them thereon by the trial court, leading
plaintiff to appeal on various grounds, including that the trial court erred by
including the nonsignatory manufacturer in the arbitration. (Felisilda, supra,
53 Cal.App.5th at pp. 491-492, 494.) The court of appeal determined that
“[b]ecause the [plaintiffs] expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of
the condition of the vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the
sales contract – they [were] estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim
against [the manufacturer].” (See Id. at pp. 496-497.)¿However, as
reasoned by the Ninth Circuit, in Felisilda, “[i]t ma[de] a critical
difference that the Felisildas … sued the dealership in addition to the
manufacturer[,] … [which] does not address the situation … here, where the
non-signatory manufacturer attempted to compel arbitration on its own.” (Ngo
v. BMW of North America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942, 950.)
The Court also
notes that these opinions—Felisilda, Ochoa, and Montemayor—are
not inconsistent insofar as “‘[t]he fundamental point’ [in Felisilda]
[wa]s that a party is ‘not entitled to make use of [a contract containing an
arbitration clause] as long as it worked to [his or] her advantage, then
attempt to avoid its application in defining the forum in which [his or] her
dispute ... should be resolved.’” (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC, supra,
53 Cal.App.5th at p. 496, quoting Jensen, supra, 18 Cal.App.5th
at p. 306.) Unlike in Felisilda, Plaintiffs here are not trying to use
the arbitration provision to their advantage against one defendant (or in one
forum) and simultaneously trying to avoid arbitration against another defendant
(or avoid arbitration in another forum).
Based on these
determinations, the Court finds that TMS lacks standing to enforce the
arbitration clause in the Vehicle’s sales contract under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel.
IV.
Standing –
Conclusion
Having failed to
show that it has standing to enforce the arbitration clause in the Vehicle’s
sales contract, Defendant TMS’s motion is DENIED. 

Conclusion
Defendant Toyota Motor Sales,
U.S.A., Inc.’s Motion to Compel Binding Arbitration is DENIED.