 Case Number:  23STCV12977    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JASMIN HERNANDEZ, an individual;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SRC HOLDINGS, LLC, a Delaware Corporation; SAP SOLUTIONS, INC, a
  California Corporation; KANAPLYA, LLC, a Limited Liability Company; PEARL MANAGEMENT
  GROUP, INC, a California Corporations; PEARL PHARMA, INC., a California
  Corporation; MAGIC APPLIANCE, INC., a California Corporation; CRYSTAL AIR INC,
  a California Corporation; COVELLO INVESTMENTS, LLC, a California Limited Liability
  Company; CHASE MEDICAL ASSISTING AND SUPPLIES, INC., a California
  Corporation; CARE EVOLUTION, INC., a California Corporation; BLUEBELL FARMS,
  INC., a California Corporation; JULIA PERLMAN, an Individual; MICHAEL PERLMAN,
  an Individual; IGOR DEKHTERMAN, an Individual; and DOES 1-100, inclusive;
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12977
 Hearing Date:   2/22/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Julia
  Pearlman’s Motion for Sanctions Against Jasmin Hernandez and Her Attorneys
  Stephan Filip P.C. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 128.7.



 
Background
Pleadings
Pursuant to a June 7, 2023 Complaint, Plaintiff Hernandez sues Defendants
SRC Holdings, LLC (SRC), SAP Solutions, Inc. (SAP), Kanaplya, LLC (Kanaplya),
Pearl Management Group, Inc. (Pearl Management), Pearl Pharma, Inc. (Pearl
Pharma), Magic Appliance, Inc. (Magic Appliance), Crystal Air, Inc. (Crystal
Air), Covello Investments, LLC (Covello), Chase Medical Assisting and Supplies,
Inc. (Chase Medical), Care Evolution, Inc. (Care Evolution), Bluebell Farms,
Inc. (Bluebell Farms), Julia Pearlman, Michael, Pearlman, Igor Dekhterman, and
Does 1-100.
The Complaint alleges claims of (1) Violation of Labor Code Section
1102.5, (2) Violation of Labor Code Section 98.6, (3) Wrongful Termination in
Violation of Public Policy, (4) Violation of Labor Code Section 226, (5)
Violation of Labor Code Sections 201, 202, and 218, (6) Violation of Labor Code
Section 203, (7) Violation of Labor Code Section 2802, (8) Violations of Labor
Code Sections 1182, 1197, and IWC Wage Order 5 § 4, (9) Unfair Business
Practices, and (10) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
The claims arise from the following allegations, as summarized by
Plaintiff Hernandez in an opposition now before the Court:
(1) Defendants SRC, SAP, Kanaplya,
Pearl Management, Pearl Pharma, Magic Appliance, Crystal Air, Covello
Investments, Chase Medical, Care Evolution, and Bluebell Farms (collectively,
the Business Entity Defendants), and Defendants Julia Perlman, Michael Perlman,
and Igor Dekhterman (collectively, the Individual Defendants) operate cannabis
growing and distribution companies that taken together are one enterprise.
(2) From January to July 2020,
Plaintiff worked as a consultant for Defendants.
(3) In or around August 2020,
Defendant Julia Perlman promised Plaintiff a full-time job as the controller
for $100,000 per year salary. Relying on Defendant Perlman’s representation,
Plaintiff quit her job and began working for Defendants.
(4) Beginning August 2020 through
April 2022, Plaintiff worked as Defendants’ controller. Plaintiff’s salary was
$100,000.00 per year. From August 2020 through April 2022, Plaintiff worked
over 40 hours a week and over 8 hours per day each week. From August 2020
through April 2022, Defendant compensated Plaintiff only $36,000.00, which is grossly
below minimum wage.
(5) As part of her job
responsibilities, Plaintiff was required to travel from Los Angeles to Santa
Rosa for one week per month. Defendants did not reimburse Plaintiff for mileage.
Defendants required Plaintiff to live in their house during this week.
(6) Plaintiff also utilized her
personal phone and internet services for Defendants’ benefit as she worked from
home three weeks of the month. Defendants did not reimburse Plaintiff.
(7) In or around April 2022,
Plaintiff demanded that she be compensated for her work. Defendants refused. Defendants’
refusal resulted in Plaintiff’s termination.
(8) As a result of Defendants’
conduct, Plaintiff has suffered, and continues to suffer humiliation,
embarrassment, emotional distress, and mental anguish.
Motion Before the Court
On December 21, 2023, Defendant
Julia Pearlman filed a motion for sanctions against Plaintiff Hernandez and her
counsel. The motion is premised on Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 and
seeks a court order striking the Complaint as frivolous and dismissing this
action. More specifically, Julia Pearlman contends she was never Plaintiff’s
employer, that Plaintiff was a mere contractor, and that Plaintiff thus filed a
frivolous action. The motion also requests monetary sanctions but fails to
specify the amount of monetary sanctions requested.
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff
Hernandez opposed the motion for sanctions.
On February 14, 2024, Defendant
Julia Pearlman replied to the opposition, which argues in part that the
opposition should not be considered because it was not timely filed or should
only be considered in part because the length of the opposition’s points and
authorities are violative of the California Rules of Court.
Defendant Julia Pearlman’s motion
is now before the Court.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Opposition Objections to Motion’s
Pearlman Declaration
All Objections: OVERRULED [Personal
Knowledge].
 
Motion for Sanctions – Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7
I.
Preliminary
Consideration – Untimely Opposition
Over
Defendant Julia Pearlman’s objection on reply, the Court will consider the
late-filed opposition by Plaintiff Hernandez. (See Reply, pp. 2-3.) This is
because Julia Pearlman has replied to the opposition on the merits and has
failed to make a showing of prejudice in relation to the late service of the
opposition. (See Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
333, 342-343; accord Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 690, 697; Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272,
1288; cf. Boyle v. CertainTeed Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 645, 650
[“A party’s participation in a hearing after the party’s objection to the
hearing as unauthorized does not constitute waiver by acquiescence”].)
II.
Preliminary
Consideration – Alleged Improper Length of Opposition
The
Court rejects Defendant Julia Pearlman’s incorrect argument that the opposition
violates the California Rules of Court by including points and authorities
spanning 14 pages. (See Reply, p. 3.)
The
Rules of Court are clear: “Except in a summary judgment or summary adjudication
motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages. …. The page
limit does not include the caption page, the notice of motion and motion,
exhibits, declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of
authorities, or the proof of service.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subd.
(d).)
Here,
Plaintiff’s opposition properly contains points and authorities 14 pages long,
well within the 15-page limit. 
III.
Legal
Standard
A
motion for sanctions can be brought against an attorney or a party for
presenting to the court a frivolous paper or a paper for an improper purpose.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7.)
To
prevail on a motion for sanctions under section 128.7, the movant must
establish that (1) a challengeable paper (2) was presented to the court and (3)
the paper was frivolous (i.e., without legal or factual merit) or brought for
an improper purpose. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b), (c).)
Section
128.7 is modeled after, and nearly identical to, the 1993 amended version of
FRCP 11. (Guillemin v. Stein (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 156, 167 (Guillemin);
see Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 190 (Bucur).) When
the California Legislature enacted § 128.7, it also adopted the Advisory
Committee’s notes to Rule 11 as a statement of legislative intent. (Barnes
v. Department of Corr. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 126, 132 (Barnes).) Thus,
cases interpreting the amended FRCP 11 and the Advisory Committee’s notes to
Rule 11 can be used as persuasive authority. (See Bucur, supra,
at p. 190; see, e.g., Barnes, at p. 136 [court relied on Advisory
Committee’s notes to conclude that formal, rather than informal, notice is
required under § 128.7].)
IV.
Order
Granting Sanctions Striking Complaint: DENIED
A. Proper Paper Challenged
Pleadings
(i.e., complaints, cross-complaints, answers, and demurrers), petitions,
written notices of motions, and other similar papers can be challenged under section
128.7. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 128.7, subds. (b), (c), 422.10.) The phrase
“other similar papers” presumably includes papers attached to motions (e.g.,
memorandums of points and authorities and declarations), oppositions, and reply
papers. (See Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial Ch. 9(III)-C ¶¶ 9:1154, 9:1155 (The Rutter Group 2022).)
Here,
Defendant Julia Pearlman challenges the Complaint in this action, which is a
type of pleading that may be properly challenged in a motion for sanctions
brought pursuant to section 128.7. (See Mot., Notice, p. 2.)
B. Paper Presented to the Court
The
movant must establish that the challengeable paper was presented to the court. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b), (c).) A paper is “presented” to the court
when it is signed, filed, submitted, or later advocated. (Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7, subd. (b).)
Here,
Defendant Julia Pearlman challenges a proper paper that has been presented to
this Court because the Complaint in this action was signed by counsel Shahane A. Martirosyan, Esq. and was filed on June
7, 2023. (See Complaint, pp. 1 [date filed], 17 [signature].)
C. Frivolousness of Complaint
Whether
a paper is frivolous or brought for an improper purpose is determined by an
objective standard—that is, was it reasonable under the circumstances for the
person to believe that the paper was neither frivolous nor brought for an
improper purpose when it was presented to the court. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7, subd. (b).) Although presenting a paper for an “improper purpose”
suggests that the person’s subjective intent is in issue, the objective
standard applies to both claims. (See Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co.
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 82 (Bockrath); see also California Judges
Benchguides: Courtroom Control: Contempt & Sanctions (CJER 2017), § 3.55.)
Under this objective standard, a person has an affirmative duty to make a
reasonable inquiry into the facts and law before presenting a paper to the
court. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b); cf. Business Guides, Inc.
v. Chromatic Comms. Enters. (1991) 498 U.S. 533, 550-551 [interpreting FRCP
11; duty to make reasonable inquiry into facts applies to represented party]; King
v. Whitmer (E.D. Mich. 2021) 556 F.Supp.3d 680, 703 [interpreting FRCP 11;
attorney who filed 830-page complaint five hours after first receiving copy
could not have conducted reasonable inquiry of its contents].) What is
reasonable, however, is determined by the circumstances of the case. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b).)
Sanctions
pursuant to section 128.7 may be issued when a pleading before the Court is
legally frivolous (Guillemin, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at p. 167;
see Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b)(2), (c)) or factually frivolous (Hopkins
& Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1420 (Hopkins); Guillemin,
supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at p. 167; see Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b)(3),
(b)(4), (c)).
A
pleading is legally frivolous if it asserts claims or defenses that are not
warranted by (1) existing law or (2) a nonfrivolous argument for extending,
modifying, or reversing existing law or for establishing new law. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b)(2), (c).)
A
pleading is factually frivolous if (1) factual contentions in the paper (a)
lack evidentiary support or (b) are unlikely to have evidentiary support after
a reasonable opportunity for investigation or discovery. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 128.7, subd. (b)(3), (c); see, e.g., Hopkins, supra, 200
Cal.App.4th at p. 1420 [motion contained factual inaccuracies); see also Bockrath,
supra, 21 Cal.4th 71, 81-82 [plaintiff cannot sue based purely on
speculation and then try to use discovery process to determine if speculation is
correct; § 128.7 provides remedy for improperly speculative pleading].)
A
paper is also factually frivolous if denials of factual contentions in the
paper are neither warranted by the evidence nor based on belief or a lack of
information. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b)(4), (c).) Under this
provision, a person should not deny allegations that she knows to be true; she
should only deny allegations that she reasonably believes are not true. (Cf.
FRCP 11, advisory committee’s notes (1993).) A person can have a reasonable
belief that a factual contention is not true when (1) there is evidence that
contradicts the contention, (2) there is no evidence to support the contention,
or (3) the person has a reasonable basis for doubting the credibility of the
only evidence that supports the contention. (Ibid.)
After
review, the Court determines that Plaintiff Julia Pearlman’s motion lacks merit
as to striking the Complaint and dismissing this action based on frivolousness.
Defendant
Julia Pearlman argues that the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Hernandez is
factually and legally frivolous for various reasons, i.e., because:
(1)
“Incontrovertible evidence shows that Plaintiff herself was providing human
resources services for defendants, hired herself under her company ‘Its Accrual
World Inc.[],[’] paid herself in cash in order to avoid income tax and alimony
obligations, and issued herself checks to the ‘vendor’ ‘Its Accrual World Inc.’
for ‘Professional Fees.’ Given these facts, there is simply no way to find that
Ms. Hernandez was an employee of defendants.”
(2)
“… if there were labor improprieties present, Ms. Hernandez herself would be
legally responsible” given that ‘Ms. Hernandez “onboarded” herself.[’]
[Citation.] Ms. Hernandez told Ms. Perlman that she would pay herself in cash
as Ms. Hernandez would have future alimony obligations. [Citation.] Ms.
Hernandez would then visit defendants’ business locations and collect cash for
herself. [Citation.] Ms. Hernandez also handled defendants’ payment software
and issued payments to her company, ‘Its Accrual World’ and never issued any
checks to herself in her name.”
(3)
“… Ms. Hernandez failed to issue any taxation documents (i.e., 1099) for Its
Accrual World Inc. or herself [citation] which, presumably was intentional and
done to avoid taxation and/or alimony obligations and subjected defendants to penalties.”
(4)
“… no reasonable attorney would prosecute this action after learning that any
alleged harm suffered by Ms. Hernandez pursuant to her accounting services for
defendants was proximately caused by Ms. Hernandez’s decisions and her
execution thereof. Not only does Ms. Hernandez come to this suit with
quintessentially unclean hands, but the harms of which she complains were of
her own doing.”
(Mot.,
pp. 5-6.)
Yet,
as argued by Plaintiff Hernandez (Opp’n, p. 11), Julia Pearlman’s own evidence
shows that Julia Pearlman’s motion lacks merit. Julia Pearlman’s declaration
states that:
(1)
“Plaintiff JASMIN HERNANDEZ provided human resources services for defendants.”
(2)
“Plaintiff JASMIN HERNANDEZ told me that she would pay herself in cash as Ms.
Hernandez would have future alimony obligations.”
(3)
“Throughout the time she provided human resources and accounting services for
defendants, Plaintiff JASMIN HERNANDEZ would visit defendants’ business
locations and collect cash as payment.”
(4)
“Plaintiff JASMIN HERNANDEZ handled our payment software and occasionally
issued payment checks to her company, Its Accrual World, although never issued
any checks to herself in her personal name.”
(Mot.,
Pearlman Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
Based
on these allegations, Julia Pearlman essentially admits that Plaintiff
Hernandez worked for Defendants, contesting only whether Plaintiff Hernandez
was Defendants’ employee or contractor.
The
Court notes that while Defendant Julia Pearlman argues that Plaintiff’s work
related to Its Accrual World, Inc., and while Its Accrual World, Inc. is not a
named defendant in this action, Julia Pearlman’s declaration describes
circumstances where Plaintiff Hernandez was performing work for Defendants and
receiving compensation in return. (See Mot., Pearlman Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
The
Court also notes that to the extent Julia Pearlman argues that the Complaint is
legally frivolous because Plaintiff “hired herself” and because Plaintiff was
an independent contractor, the Court is unconvinced. Neither the moving papers
nor the reply address the ABC test used by California courts to determine
whether, despite the title given to a worker, that worker is an employee and
not an independent contractor of the alleged employer. The ABC test is codified
in California Labor Code section 2775, subdivisions (b)(1)-(b)(1)(C). When the
ABC test cannot be applied, California courts must decide whether a worker is
an employee or independent contractor pursuant to the California Supreme
Court’s decision in S. G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Department of
Industrial Relations (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341 (Borello). (Lab. Code, §
2275, subd. (b)(3). Because the moving papers and reply did not address the ABC
test or even Borello, let alone make an evidentiary showing pursuant to
those tests, the Court cannot determine whether, at this time, the Complaint is
legally or factually frivolous. This is an additional reason for denying the
motion beyond the fact that Julia Pearlman’s declaration shows factual and
legal merit to Plaintiff’s claims.
Moreover,
the Court notes that the Complaint alleges that the Business Entity Defendants
are alter egos of Defendants Julia Pearlman, Michael Pearlman, and Igor
Dekhterman, for which reason even if Plaintiff is found at trial to have only
been employed by one or more of the Business Entity Defendants, if Plaintiff
can make a showing for alter ego purposes, then liability would properly flow
to the Individual Defendants, including Julia Pearlman. (See Complaint, ¶ 17.)
The
Court thus determines that Defendant Julia Pearlman has failed to establish
that the Complaint is legally or factually frivolous.
To
the extent that Defendant Julia Pearlman’s motion argues that Plaintiff has
unclean hands or has engaged in wrongful conduct, the Court notes that such
arguments can be included in an answer and argued in a dispositive motion or at
trial. However, for the purposes of this motion, those arguments do not show
that the Complaint, as filed, is factually or legally frivolous, as discussed
above. (See, e.g., Mot., Pearlman Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
D. Improper Purpose of Complaint
Sanctions
can be imposed if the paper was presented primarily for an improper purpose,
such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or expense. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.7, subds. (b)(1), (c); Hopkins, supra, 200 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1420; Guillemin, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at p. 167; see,
e.g., Musaelian v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512, 515-516 [plaintiff filed
retaliatory suit for improper purpose by trying to gain better bargaining
position in ongoing litigation].)
The
movant must establish that the improper purpose was the “primary” reason for
presenting the paper to the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(1).)
In
some cases, a person can be sanctioned for presenting a nonfrivolous paper for
an improper purpose. (See, e.g., Ponce v. Wells Fargo Bank (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 253, 264-265; cf. Townsend v. Holman Consulting Corp. (9th
Cir. 1991) 929 F.2d 1358, 1362 [interpreting FRCP 11, finding courts do not
want to hinder how people exercise their substantive legal rights]; Zaldivar
v. City of L.A. (9th Cir. 1986) 780 F.2d 823, 832 [interpreting FRCP 11,
finding signing of nonfrivolous complaint that initiates suit cannot be
considered improper], overturned on other grounds, Cooter & Gell v.
Hartmarx Corp. (1990) 496 U.S. 384.
Nonfrivolous
papers can be brought for an improper purpose when (1) they are filed
excessively, (2) they contain abusive language, (3) the person has no sincere
intent of pursuing them, or (4) their primary purpose is to generate publicity
in order to embarrass the opposing party. (Cf. Whitehead v. Food Max
(5th Cir.2003) 332 F.3d 796, 805-806 [interpreting FRCP 11].)
After
review, the Court determines that Plaintiff Julia Pearlman’s motion lacks merit
as to striking the Complaint and dismissing this action based on improper
purpose.
Defendant
Julia Pearlman argues that the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Hernandez was
brought for an improper purpose because “Plaintiff JASMIN HERNANDEZ and her
counsel filed the Complaint to harass defendants by making frivolous
allegations of the existence of … legal duties [that] are wholly unsupported by
fact or law.” (Mot., p. 6.)
This
argument essentially amounts to a position that the Complaint was brought for
an improper purpose because it is frivolous and thus was brought simply to
harass Defendants. However, the Court has found that the evidence does not establish
that the Complaint was frivolously filed, relying in part on Defendant Julia Pearlman’s
own declaration to make this determination. (See Discussion at § IV.C. supra;
see also Mot., Pearlman Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.)
The
Court thus determines that Julia Pearlman has not established that the
Complaint was brought for an improper purpose. Thus, Defendants’ motion is
DENIED insofar as it seeks a court order striking the Complaint and dismissing
this action.
V.
Order
Granting Monetary Sanctions: DENIED [as to Defendant Julia Pearlman’s
request]; GRANTED, in part [as to Plaintiff Hernandez’s request].
A
sanction imposed for violation of subdivision (b) shall be limited to what is sufficient
to deter repetition of this conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly
situated. Subject to the limitations in paragraphs (1) and (2), the sanction
may consist of, or include, directives of a nonmonetary nature, an order to pay
a penalty into court, or, if imposed on motion and warranted for effective
deterrence, an order directing payment to the movant of some or all of the
reasonable attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred as a direct result of
the violation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (d).)
Monetary
sanctions may not be awarded against a represented party for a violation of
paragraph (2) of subdivision (b). (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (d)(1); see
Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(2) [“The claims, defenses, and other legal
contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument
for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law”].)
Moreover,
monetary sanctions may not be awarded on the court’s motion unless the court
issues its order to show cause before a voluntary dismissal or settlement of
the claims made by or against the party that is, or whose attorneys are, to be
sanctioned. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (d)(2).)
A
motion for sanctions under section 128.7 that is brought primarily for an
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation, is itself subject to a motion for
sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (h).) The nonmovant may be able to
make a counter-request for sanctions in the opposition. (Cf. Patelco Credit
Un. v. Sahni (9th Cir. 2001) 262 F.3d 897, 913 (Patelco) [party
defending against FRCP 11 motion can make counter-request for sanctions in
opposition papers].) But at least one court has held that a counter-request for
sanctions under section 128.7, subdivision (h) must meet the separate-motion
requirement and is subject to a separate safe-harbor period. (See, e.g., Day
v. Collingwood (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130.)
In determining the amount of any monetary sanctions to
impose, the court should consider the financial resources of the person being
sanctioned. (Cf. FRCP 11, advisory committee’s notes (1993).)
A.
Monetary Sanctions for Defendant Julia Pearlman
Based
on the outcome of Defendants’ motion, the Court DENIES Julia Pearlman’s request
for monetary sanctions.
Moreover,
the Court notes that because the moving papers and reply did not specify an
amount of monetary damages sought, the Court would have been unable to fashion
appropriate relief, even had the Court granted Defendants’ motion as to
striking the Complaint and dismissing this action. (See Reply, p. 4 [“[Julia
Pearlman’s] [m]otion did[] [not] ask for a specific amount of attorney’s fees
because the purpose of the [m]otion is not to run up litigation costs but to
reduce them by nipping the matter in the proverbial bud and to allow Plaintiff
and her counsel to actually discuss and inquire into the veracity of their
claims and amend or dismiss their Complaint based thereupon.”].)

B. Monetary Sanctions
for Plaintiff Hernandez
In her opposition, Plaintiff
Hernandez makes a counter-request for $5,000 in monetary sanctions on the
following grounds:
(1) “Plaintiff respectfully
requests that the Court issues a reprimand against counsel of record, Arthur
Hodge for filing this Motion as a negotiating tactic without setting forth any
evidentiary support or legal support for its position.”
(2) “… Mr. Hodge has filed another
Motion under Section 125.7 claiming Plaintiff did not inform Defendants before
proceeding with an entry of default.”
(3) “Plaintiff also respectfully
requests that the Court enters a monetary sanctions against Defendants for
$5,000 as Plaintiff has incurred $5,000.00 in attorneys’ fees to oppose this
Motion.”
(4) “This Motion is not ‘warranted’
and is frivolous because Defendant and her counsel know that Plaintiff
performed work for Defendants as represented in Defendant Perlman’s
Declaration, and Defendants know that the moneys owed to Plaintiff is disputed.”
(5) “Defendant Perlman can believe
that that Plaintiff was an independent contractor and not an employee for
Defendant. But said belief is just that[:] [a] belief. The law provides a
detailed analysis of whether a person is an employee or an independent
contractor. Plaintiff’s counsel provided this law to Defendant’s counsel since
he is not familiar with labor and employment litigation. Based on the laws provided,
any reasonable attorney would conclude that a plaintiff like Jasmin Hernandez
can file this complaint.”
(Opp’n, p. 16.)
In reply, Defendant Julia Pearlman fails
to address the counter-request, instead limiting the reply’s arguments to the
merit of Julia Pearlman’s motion. (Reply, pp. 2-4.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Hernandez.
First, the Court notes that because
when the California Legislature enacted section 128.7, it also adopted the
Advisory Committee’s notes to Rule 11 as a statement of legislative intent (Barnes,
supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at p. 132), and because cases interpreting the
amended FRCP 11 and the Advisory Committee’s notes to Rule 11 can be used as
persuasive authority. (See Bucur, supra, at p. 190; see, e.g., Barnes,
at p. 136 [court relied on Advisory Committee’s notes to conclude that formal,
rather than informal, notice is required under § 128.7]), this Court relies on Patelco,
supra, 262 F.3d at p. 913 to determine that a responding party may make
a counter-request for monetary sanctions in opposition to a motion for
sanctions brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.
Second, the Court determines that
the counter-request is properly made against Defendant Julia Pearlman’s motion.
The counter-request is essentially directed at the papers attached to a motion—e.g.,
the points and authorities and supporting evidence—which are proper papers for
section 128.7 purposes. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 128.7, subds. (b), (c); 422.10;
Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial Ch.
9(III)-C ¶¶ 9:1154, 9:1155 (The Rutter Group 2022).) Moreover, that motion was filed
with the Court and is argued on the merits. (See Mot., pp. 1 [filing], 5-6
[argument on merits]; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b) [paper must
be before the Court].) For these reasons, Plaintiff Hernandez’s counter-request
is properly brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
subdivision (h).
Third, the Court finds that
Defendant Julia Pearlman frivolously brought this motion. As discussed in
Section IV.C. above, nowhere in the moving papers or the reply does Julia
Pearlman address the ABC test, the Borello test, or whether Plaintiff can
make an evidentiary showing of an employment relationship pursuant to those
tests. Julia Pearlman’s moving papers and reply simply insist that Plaintiff
worked as a contractor for Its Accrual World, Inc. (See Mot., pp. 5-6; Reply,
pp. 2-4.) Yet, that argument is contradicted by Julia Pearlman’s own
declaration stating Plaintiff Hernandez did work for Defendants. (See Mot.,
Pearlman Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel shared knowledge of the
ABC and Borello tests with Julia Pearlman’s counsel, who failed to
address those tests in reply. (See Opp’n, Martirosyan Decl., ¶¶ 13 [Julia Pearlman’s counsel’s areas
of practice], 14 [informing Julia Pearlman’s counsel of the ABC and Borello
tests],
18 [defense counsel never responded to the letter sent to defense counsel by
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the ABC and Borello tests];
see also Attorney Profile [162563] (2023) The State Bar of California
<https://apps.calbar.ca.gov/attorney/Licensee/Detail/162563> [as of Feb.
22, 2024] [showing www.arthurhodge.com as defense counsel’s website]; Legal
Services (2023) ADHLaw, Arthur D. Hodge Esq. <https://www.adhlaw.com/>
[as of Feb. 22, 2023] [website to which www.arthurhodge.com is rerouted,
showing, under Legal Services, that “Mr. Hodge has been practicing law
as an attorney in California for 28 years and since 2006 he has handled client
matters related to cannabis law issues,” that Arthur Hodge “represents and
advises businesses, collectives, cultivators, individual operators, brands and
property owners involved in the medicinal and adult-use cannabis industry,” and
that Arthur Hodge’s “practice includes civil litigation, business law, cannabis
licensing and compliance.”].) Under these circumstances, Julia Pearlman’s
motion was frivolous. (See also Reply, p. 3 [frivolous argument relating to
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (d)]; see also Discussion at Section II
supra.)
Fourth, the Court determines that
the $5,000 requested in sanctions should be reduced. The requested sanctions
are comprised of a reasonable fee rate of $500 but are based on an unreasonable
ten hours of work expended “with the making of this motion [sic].” (See Opp’n, Martirosyan
Decl., ¶ 22.) A more reasonable amount of time to oppose this motion is seven
hours.
Last, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (d)(1), the Court LIMITS these sanctions
to defense counsel, i.e., Arthur D. Hodge, A Professional Corporation, Arthur
D. Hodge, Esq. (State Bar No. 162563), Julie Hunt, Esq. (State Bar No. 332592),
and Levi Plesset, Esq. (State Bar No. 296039). This is because the Court has
essentially determined that, in violation of Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7, subdivision (b)(2), Defendant Julia Pearlman brought a motion that makes
“legal contentions … [that] are [not] warranted by existing law or by a
nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law.” Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
subdivision (d)(1) provides that “[m]onetary sanctions may not be awarded
against a represented party for a violation of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).”
Here, Defendant Julia Pearlman is a represented party. (See Mot., p. 1 [listing
counsel].) As a result, sanctions are only proper against defense counsel, named
above.
Sanctions are thus GRANTED, in
part, in favor of Plaintiff Hernandez, in the amount of $3,500, to be paid jointly
and severally by Arthur D. Hodge, A Professional Corporation, Arthur D. Hodge,
Esq. (State Bar No. 162563), Julie Hunt, Esq. (State Bar No. 332592), and Levi
Plesset, Esq. (State Bar No. 296039). 
Conclusion
I.
Defendant Julia Pearlman’s Motion
for Sanctions Against Jasmin Hernandez and Her Attorneys Stephan Filip P.C.
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 128.7 is DENIED.
II.
Plaintiff’s opposition counter-request
for monetary sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $3,500.
Arthur D. Hodge, A Professional
Corporation, Arthur D. Hodge, Esq. (State Bar No. 162563), Julie Hunt, Esq.
(State Bar No. 332592), and Levi Plesset, Esq. (State Bar No. 296039) are
jointly and severally ORDERED to pay these sanctions to Plaintiff Hernandez
within 15 days of this order.