  Case Number:  21STCV21246    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



S.C., an incompetent by and through his Guardian Ad Litem,
  SERGIO CARDENAS, SR.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, College Hospital, LOS ANGELES UNIFIED
  SCHOOL DISTRICT, ABC UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, WILLIAM GEE, and DOES 1 through
  10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV21246
 Hearing Date:   2/22/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant College
  Hospital, Inc. dba College Hospital’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
  Complaint [CRS# 4003];
Defendant Los
  Angeles Unified School District’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint [CRS#
  1058]; and
Defendants ABC
  Unified School District and William Gee’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
  Amended Complaint [CRS# 3643].



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff S.C., by
and through his guardian ad litem, Sergio Cardenas Sr. (S.C.’s father), sues
Defendants County of Los Angeles (L.A. County) through its Department of
Children and Family Services (DCFS), College Hospital, Los Angeles Unified
School District (LAUSD), ABC Unified School District (ABC Unified), William Gee
(Gee), and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to an October 23, 2023 First Amended
Complaint (FAC).
This action, as framed by the
initial June 7, 2021 Complaint, was removed to federal court on or around
August 3, 2021 and was remanded from federal court on August 18, 2023. While
LAUSD argues that this is the third amended pleading in the actions between the
parties, the Court refers to the operative pleading in this state action as the
FAC.
The operative FAC alleges claims of
(1) Negligence against Defendants L.A. County and Does 1 through 10, (2)
Negligence against Defendants ABC Unified, Gee, and Does 1 through 10, (3)
Negligence against Defendants LAUSD and Does 1 through 10, (4) Negligence
against Defendants College Hospital and Does 1 through 10, (5) Violation of
California Government Code § 11135 against Defendants L.A. County, College
Hospital, ABC Unified, and LAUSD, and (6) Violation of California Education
Code §§ 200, 220 against Defendants ABC Unified and LAUSD.
The claims arise from the following
and other allegations contained in the FAC.
Since age two, S.C. has been under
the supervision of one or more of the Defendants. S.C. has relied upon the
agencies of California including the child welfare system, social service
agencies, and educational institutions for his care, to keep him safe from
harm, and to provide developmental, educational, and disability services.
Defendants’ collective actions
caused S.C. to be placed in fifteen inappropriate foster care placements, and
sixteen of the most restrictive psychiatric placements. While at these
placements. S.C. frequently ran away, resulting in physical injuries and
emotional distress, sexual assault of S.C. once during his care, and once
during an elopement from care. Each loss of placement and each restrictive
psychiatric placement resulted in the deterioration of S.C.’s mental health and
further institutionalization.
Defendants’ collective failures culminated
in S.C.’s over three-year abandonment at the locked psychiatric setting of College
Hospital at age 15, between October 2017 and February 16, 2021, for the sole
reason that each Defendant refused to fund an appropriate therapeutic placement.
Specifically, at various Individualized Education Program (IEP) meetings, ABC
Unified and Gee refused to make recommendations for educational placement or
services for S.C., arguing that LAUSD needed to make those determinations as
S.C.’s school district of residence, and LAUSD argued that S.C. was outside of
LAUSD’s geographic boundaries and that it would not be responsible for S.C.
until he was physically released from College Hospital, thus resulting in S.C.’s
long-term abandonment at College Hospital. Both districts also initially
refused to fund S.C.’s placement at a Texas county school, with LAUSD later
offering to fund the placement if ABC Unified recommended that S.C. be
transferred, which ABC Unified refused to do.
In December 2019, S.C. filed an
administrative due process complaint with the California Office of
Administrative Hearings (OAH), which was directed against ABC Unified and LAUSD
and sought a determination as to each agency’s responsibilities regarding
offering and securing placement for S.C. On July 21, 2020, the OAH found, among
other things, that ABC Unified violated S.C.’s rights under the Individual with
Disability Education Act by refusing to evaluate and considering S.C.’s
educational placement. The OAH ordered ABC Unified to hold an IEP for S.C.
within 30 days and that LAUSD need not attend IEP meetings but would need to
find S.C. appropriate care after release from College Hospital. ABC Unified and
Gee did not comply with the OAH’s orders within the specified 30 days.
At some point after the OAH’s July
21, 2020, order, LAUSD took responsibility for locating a residential treatment
for S.C. Thereafter, in October 2020, ABC Unified and Gee held an IEP meeting
and offered S.C. a placement in Massachusetts, an offer that ABC Unified
forwarded to LAUSD, and which would include intensive mental health and
behavioral services for S.C. After various complications arose and were
resolved—e.g., College Hospital’s failure to provide a discharge date, thus
delaying the placement—in January 2021, S.C. was placed in Massachusetts.
There, he has for the first time received 24-hour disability related care and
has been stable, safe, and making progress.
S.C.’s special education
eligibility ends on June 29, 2024, upon his reaching age 22, at which time S.C.
anticipates a return to California, where the South Central Los Angeles
Regional Center (SCLARC) is now planning for S.C.’s services and placement
needs in anticipation of his return to California.
S.C. claims (1) injuries to his
civil rights, denial of access to services, discrimination, exclusion/denial of
access to all aspects of society, unjustifiable isolation and segregation, and
violations of his rights under the U.S. and California Constitutions, (2) pain
and suffering including physical injuries, exacerbation of his condition,
causing new disabilities, permanent loss of developmental opportunities and
functional impairment, (3) emotional distress in the form of serious emotional
distress, trauma, and humiliation, (4) special damages and economic losses
including denial of access to his social security income and other public
benefits, and (5) loss of earning capacity, loss of future earnings and future
medical and mental health costs.
S.C. prays for nominal, special,
general, and compensatory damages, as well as equitable and injunctive relief
tailored to each Defendant.
Demurrer by Defendant College
Hospital
On November 2, 2023, Defendant College
Hospital filed a demurrer challenging the FAC’s fourth and fifth causes of
action, i.e., all the claims alleged against this Defendant in the FAC. The
demurrer was set for a hearing on February 22, 2024.
On January 8, 2024, College
Hospital filed supplemental documents in support of its demurrer.
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff S.C.
opposed College Hospital’ss demurrer.
On February 13, 2024, College
Hospital replied to Plaintiff’s opposition.
The demurrer is now before the
Court.
Demurrer by Defendant LAUSD
On December 7, 2023, Defendant
LAUSD filed a demurrer challenging the FAC’s third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action, i.e., all the claims alleged against this Defendant in the FAC. The
demurrer was set for a hearing on April 22, 2024.
On December 11, 2023, Defendant
LAUSD filed an ex parte application to advance the hearing date on LAUSD’s
demurrer.
On December 12, 2023, the Court
granted the ex parte application and advanced the hearing date for Defendant
LAUSD’s demurrer to February 22, 2024.
On December 18, 2023, Defendant
LAUSD filed an amended notice for the hearing on its demurrer.
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff S.C.
opposed Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer.
On February 14, 2024, Defendant
LAUSD replied to Plaintiff’s opposition.
Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer is now
before the Court.
Demurrer by Defendants ABC
Unified and Gee
On December 20, 2023, Defendants ABC
Unified and Gee filed a demurrer challenging the FAC’s second, fifth, and sixth
causes of action, i.e., all the claims alleged against this Defendant in the
FAC. The demurrer was set for a hearing on April 29, 2024.
On December 21, 2023, the Court
granted and signed a proposed stipulation and order advancing the April 29, 2024,
hearing to February 22, 2024.
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff S.C.
opposed Defendants ABC Unified and Gee’s demurrer.
On February 14, 2024, Defendants
ABC Unified and Gee replied to Plaintiff S.C.’s opposition.
Defendants ABC Unified and Gee’s
demurrer is now before the Court.
Forthcoming Demurrer by
Defendant L.A. County
A demurrer filed by Defendant L.A.
County on December 7, 2023, is set for hearing on March 11, 2024.
 
Propriety
of FAC
The Court notes that, as stated in
Defendant College Hospital’s reply, the FAC was filed without leave of Court. (Reply,
p. 3.) However, all the Defendants here at issue, as well as Defendant L.A.
County, have filed demurrers against that pleading. Moreover, the pleading was
filed after remand from federal court and streamlines the discussion on the
state court issues by framing the pleadings around the state court claims.
Consequently, the Court accepts the pleading.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice [Defendant College Hospital]
Per Defendant College Hospital’s
request, the Court takes judicial notice of: (1) a copy of College Hospital’s
licensure as a private acute psychiatric hospital issued by the California
Department of Public Health for the years 2016 to the present; (2) a copy of
the Medical Board of California’s website indicating that Madeleine
Valencerina, M.D. has been licensed as a physician in the State of California
since July 28, 1992 and a copy of the medical license verification documents;
(3) a copy of the Notice of Removal of Action from State Court to Federal Court
pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§1441(a) and 1446(a)-(b) by Defendant, County of Los
Angeles; (4) a copy of the Order Remand from the United States District Court
for the Central District of California to this court dated August 11, 2023 and
endorsed by this court on August 18, 2023; (5) a copy of an Administrative
Decision designated Parent on Behalf of Student v. ABC Unified School District
and Los Angeles Unified School District, bearing Case No. 2019120715 before the
Office of Administrative Hearings for the State of California dated July 21,
2020; (6) a copy of a letter dated November 29, 2017 between College Hospital
and the County of Los Angeles, Department of Children and Family Services
involving the financial agreement for the care and treatment provided at College
Hospital for Plaintiff; and (7) a copy Civil Minutes – General from the United
States District Court, Central District of California, Case No.
2:21-cv-06163-MWF-PDx, Docket No. 131, consisting of ten pages, including the
ruling on College Hospital’s Motion to Dismiss the third claim for relief
predicated upon the Americans with Disabilities Act which was granted on
January 25, 2024. (See 11/2/23 RJN; 1/8/24 Supp. RJN; 2/13/24 Supp. RJN; see
also Evid. Code, §§ 452, subds. (c), (d), (h), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Demurrer
[Defendant College Hospital]
Preliminary Consideration –
Timeliness of Demurrer
In opposition to College Hospital’s
demurrer, S.C. argues that the demurrer should be overruled because it is
brought on grounds that could have been raised in proceedings before this Court
relating to the initial Complaint or in the federal court proceedings. (Opp’n,
p. 10.)
Where a pleading has been amended
after a demurrer to an earlier version of the pleading, a party “shall not
demur to any portion of the amended complaint … on grounds that could have been
raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint ….” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)
However, an objection that a
demurrer fails to state a cause of action is never waived, thus suggesting that
a party can demur on this ground even if the party could have raised the point
on a previous demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.80, subd. (a); Henry v.
Associated Indem. Corp. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1405, 1413; McKinney v.
Oxnard Union High School Dist. Bd. (1982) 31 Cal.3d 79, 90.)
Based on section 430.80,
subdivision (a), the Court cannot interpret a waiver of arguments relating to
the sufficiency of the FAC’s fourth and fifth causes of action.
Preliminary Consideration –
Length of Papers
Because S.C. has conceded that the
fifth cause of action is not sufficiently alleged against Defendant College
Hospital (Opp’n, p. 16), the Court need not reach the effect of College
Hospital’s having filed points and authorities more than fifteen pages long,
where the argument in favor of sustaining a demurrer against the fifth cause of
action begins on the sixteenth page. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule. 3.1113, subd.
(d).)
S.C.’s points and authorities are
similarly overly long, with the concession regarding the fifth cause of action
stated in the sixteenth page. (Opp’n, p. 16.) The Court does not reach the
effect of S.C. having filed points and authorities more than fifteen pages
long. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule. 3.1113, subd. (d).) The Court interprets S.C.’s
concession as a request for dismissal of that claim for the sake of expediency
in these proceedings.
Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) To sufficiently allege a cause of action,
a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts needed to
establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee on
Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Thus, “[t]o survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded
by statute on other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 506, 521.)
I.
First Amended Complaint, Fourth
Cause of Action, Negligence: OVERRULED.
“‘The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are … “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”’” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913,
917 (Ladd).)
The FAC’s fourth cause of action
states a negligence claim against Defendants College Hospital and Does 1
through 10 based on allegations that a special relationship existed between the
parties, creating a duty from College Hospital to S.C., which College Hospital
breached in various manners throughout S.C.’s alleged foster home placement (as
opposed to mere medical treatment) at College Hospital. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190
[allegations summarized in Background supra], 194-196 [allegations against College
Hospital summarized], 201-203 [general allegations against all Defendants summarized],
269-281 [incorporation and fourth cause of action].)
In its demurrer, College Hospital
argues that the FAC fails to state a negligence claim against it because the
claim is a professional negligence claim alleged in such a way as to circumvent
the manifest application of the Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act of 1975
(MICRA), which sets out such a claim’s statute of limitations, collateral
source abrogation and subrogation preclusion, limitations on recovery for
non-economic damages, and limitations on attorney’s fees. College Hospital argues
that the MICRA applies here because College Hospital is being sued based upon
conduct related to the professional services rendered or that should have been
rendered to Plaintiff. College Hospital also argues that the fourth cause of
action is not sufficiently alleged as to breach and causation and is predicated
on allegations subject to the applicable statute of limitations, i.e., is
time-barred. (Demurrer, pp. 7-15.)
In opposition, S.C. first argues
that the demurrer should be overruled because College Hospital could have
raised the arguments made in its demurrer against the initial Complaint or in
the federal court proceedings, thus resulting in waiver. S.C. also argues that
a special relationship exists between the parties, that the FAC alleges breach
of those duties by, for example, allowing S.C. to be physically assaulted at College
Hospital and requiring S.C. to attend his mother’s funeral and juvenile court
proceedings in shackles, and that S.C. has suffered damages. S.C. last argues
that MICRA limitations do not apply because the FAC alleges that S.C. was
functionally placed at College Hospital for foster care purposes rather than
strictly medical treatment purposes, for which reason MICRA is not wholly
applicable to the stated claim, e.g., FAC alleging that College Hospital
plenary power to control the circumstances of the Plaintiff ’s discharge,
special education, placement and the provision of his appropriate child welfare
services, citing paragraph 271. (Opp’n, pp. 10-16.)
In reply, College Hospital argues
that the federal courts already rejected the argument that College Hospital had
waived its right to challenge the sufficiency of the fourth cause of action. College
Hospital also argues and reiterates that it was a health care provider
providing professional services, for which reason the fourth cause of action is
subject to the MICRA. College Hospital references a Supreme Court decision
cited in the moving papers and public policy in support. Last, College Hospital
argues that many of the stated grounds for professional negligence are time
barred. (Reply, pp. 3, 5-9.)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff.
The Court initially notes that it
has addressed the arguments relating to waiver above. (See Preliminary
Discussion – Timeliness of Demurrer discussion supra.)
Moving to the merits, first, the
Court notes that Defendant College Hospital concedes that “[i]t is undisputed
the duty owed here is predicated upon a healthcare relationship.” (Demurrer, p.
8, fn. 16.)
The question, however, is whether
that duty and the resulting relationship between the parties is framed and
limited by the MICRA.
As noted by the opposition, the FAC
frames College Hospital as Plaintiff’s foster home in addition to a provider of
medical professional services. (Opp’n, p. 13, citing FAC, ¶¶ 271, 275-276, 279;
see Opp’n, ¶¶ 194-196, 269-281.) The Court does not disagree that some of the
FAC’s allegations—even those referenced by S.C.—facially appear to fall under
the MICRA because such allegations arguably involve an omission in the
professional services rendered by College Hospital to S.C. (See, e.g., ¶ 275
[attack on S.C. by another patient at College Hospital, which was seemingly not
prevented by College Hospital staff].) However, given the length of time S.C.
is alleged to have been under College Hospital’s care—at one point, more than
three years in a single, continuous stay—the relationship between College
Hospital as solely a medical provider and S.C. as solely a patient is unclear. Otherwise
stated, while the determination of whether the MICRA applies to certain undisputed
facts results in a question of law (see, e.g., Canister v. Emergency
Ambulance Service, Inc. (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 388, 396, 407), evidentiary
questions remain as to what role College Hospital played in S.C.’s life:
strictly a professional medical services provider, or, by the circumstances
alleged in the Complaint—including the school districts’ refusal to make an IEP
or take responsibility for S.C.—a foster care provider also serving as a
professional medical services provider. 
Moreover, the authority cited in
the demurrer is not clearly on point and/or distinguishable from the facts
alleged in the FAC. (Demurrer, pp. 9-12.) College Hospital has not cited
authority—nor can the Court find any—discussing the nature of the relationship
between a medical services provider and patient minor where the relationship
involves a years’ long, extended period of time during which the mental health,
developmental, and educational placement needs of the minor should have
traditionally been but were not provided to the minor, who lacked a traditional
foster care placement.
Because it is not clear whether the
MICRA applies here—a question that, even if confined to the Court in § 402
hearing, would involve factual determinations—the Court also finds that the
statute of limitations argument is unavailing. Under the traditional negligence
framework, the statute of limitations for such a negligence claim is two years
from the date of injury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.) Here, the Court determines
that all the allegations in the FAC involve torts that are, as stated,
actionable insofar as the continuing violations doctrine applies. “Allegations
of a pattern of reasonably frequent and similar acts may, in a given case,
justify treating the acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its
entirety.” (Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55 Cal.4th
1185, 1198 (2013); accord Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2013) 48
Cal.App.5th 1104, 1124 (Willis) [“The continuing violations doctrine
aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries for purposes of the statute of
limitations, treating the limitations period as accruing for all of them upon
the commission or sufferance of the last of them”].) Here, the FAC alleges a
continuing pattern of conduct from all Defendants in refusing to take
responsibility for either S.C.’s mental health, developmental, and educational
placement needs. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190.) Such allegations, under circumstances
where it is not clear whether the MICRA applies, sufficiently allege a pattern
of conduct that falls under the continuing violations doctrine.
College Hospital’s demurrer to the FAC’s
fourth cause of action is thus OVERRULED.
II.
First Amended Complaint, Fifth
Cause of Action, Violations of California Government Code § 11135: SUSTAINED.
Plaintiff concedes the fifth cause
of action is not sufficiently stated against Defendant College Hospital (Opp’n,
p. 16), thus MOOTING the analysis of the demurrer as to this claim. The Court
will sustain the demurrer as to this claim.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice [Defendant LAUSD]
Per Defendant LAUSD’s request, the
Court takes judicial notice of the OAH’s administrative decision dated July 21,
2020. (Demurrer, RJN, pp. 1-3; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subds. (d), (h), 453,
subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Request
for Judicial Notice [Plaintiff S.C.]
Per Plaintiff S.C.’s request, the
Court takes judicial notice of (1) his November 6, 2020 Government Tort Claim
to Defendant LAUSD, (2) LAUSD’s December 8, 2020 response, and (3) an August
11, 2023 minute order from the federal court proceeding granting in part and
denying in part a motion to dismiss that case, as filed by Defendant LAUSD.
(Opp’n, RJN, pp. 1; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Demurrer
[Defendant LAUSD]
Legal Standard
See above in Demurrer [Defendant College
Hospital] discussion.
I.
First Amended Complaint, Third
Cause of Action, Negligence: SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
“‘The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are … “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”’” (Ladd, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 917.)
The FAC’s third cause of action
states a negligence claim against Defendants LAUSD and Does 1 through 10 on
various statutory and common law duty grounds and based on various breaches of
those duties. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190 [allegations summarized in Background supra],
197-199 [allegations against LAUSD summarized], 201-203 [general allegations
against all Defendants summarized], 250-268 [fourth cause of action, which
incorporates prior allegations].)
In its demurrer, Defendant LAUSD
argues that, for various reasons explained in the points and authorities—e.g.,
the OAH’s determination that ABC Unified was responsible for S.C. prior to
discharge from College Hospital, application of Education Code section 56167,
subdivision (a), and Government Code section 7579.1 to the facts, and no
private cause of action under various of the referenced statutory sections—on
the face of the FAC, LAUSD did not owe any duties to S.C. (Demurrer, pp. 8-12;
see FAC, ¶¶ 257-258(g) [bases of duties alleged against LAUSD, summarized below];
Ed. Code, § 56167, subd. (a) [“Individuals with exceptional needs who are
placed in a public hospital, state licensed children's hospital, psychiatric hospital,
proprietary hospital, or a health facility for medical purposes are the
educational responsibility of the local educational agency in which the
hospital or facility is located”].)
In opposition, Plaintiff S.C.
argues in essence that despite the OAH decision, there is a factual dispute as
to whether, within the applicable statutory scheme—i.e., California Education
Code sections 48852.7, 56195.7, subdivision (j), 56205, 56325, subdivision (a),
California Government Code section 7579.1, McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act, 42 U.S.C. section 11431, et seq., and Title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
section 300.115, subdivision (a)—LAUSD owed a legal duty to S.C. and when that duty
first arose. (Opp’n, pp. 7-12.)
In reply, LAUSD argues that the
Education Code sections referenced in the FAC cannot apply where, as applied to
the FAC’s allegations, Education Code section 56167 made ABC Unified the school
district with educational responsibility over S.C. and Government Code section
7579.1 only made LAUSD responsible for S.C. following his discharge from College
Hospital—duties which were never technically triggered based on lack of
discharge notice under Government Code section 7579.1 and which LAUSD
nevertheless satisfied by funding the move to Massachusetts. LAUSD otherwise
explains why the remaining statutory sections are not applicable. (Reply, pp.
8-12.)
The Court finds in favor of LAUSD.
The Complaint alleges that “upon
receipt of notice of that S.C. [sic] was ready for discharge, LAUSD refused to prepare
to receive and provide a placement without delay upon discharge from College
Hospital.” (FAC, ¶ 259(b).) The FAC elsewhere states that notice was given on
August 21, 2020, but the letter did not provide a discharge date. (FAC, ¶¶ 174,
250.) The Education Code provides that “[i]ndividuals with exceptional needs
who are placed in a public hospital, state licensed children's hospital,
psychiatric hospital, proprietary hospital, or a health facility for medical
purposes are the educational responsibility of the local educational agency in
which the hospital or facility is located.” (Ed. Code, § 56167, subd. (a).) The
FAC clarifies that LAUSD consistently maintained at IEP meetings that it should
not have responsibility for S.C.’s educational placement needs because S.C.,
while at College Hospital, was outside of LAUSD’s geographic boundaries (FAC,
¶¶ 135, 250) and that S.C. would not become the educational responsibility of
LAUSD’s until he was discharged and returned to the district’s boundaries (FAC,
¶¶ 139, 250). These arguments were accepted by the OAH in its July 21, 2020 decision.
(Demurrer, RJN, Ex. A, pp. 18 [“If LAUSD remained [S.C.’s] district of
residence at the time of [S.C.’s] discharge from College Hospital, LAUSD would
be responsible for implementing [S.C.’s] IEP”], 20 [“Without a discharge date,
[S.C.’s] school of residence, LAUSD, would not be involved”], 26 [“The 10-day
notice of [S.C.’s] impending discharge under Government Code section 7579.1
(a)(1) would have legally triggered LAUSD’s responsibility, as the receiving
LEA, to prepare for implementing the IEP upon discharge[,] [but] [h]ere, College
Hospital never scheduled a discharge date[,] [and] [a]s a result, LAUSD was not
given notice of discharge[,] [for which reason] LAUSD had no legal duty to
become involved in the preparation, creation or implementation of [S.C.’s] IEP
during the relevant time period”], 26-27 [“ABC denied Student a FAPE at the
November 7, 2019 IEP by failing to consider any placement, including but not
limited to a residential treatment center placement, for educational purposes”;
“ABC denied [S.C.] a FAPE by predetermining [S.C.’s] placement and not coming
to the November 7, 2019 IEP with an open mind, willing to discuss various
placement options”; “LAUSD did not deny [S.C.] a FAPE by failing to make a
substantive offer of placement, including but not limited to a residential
treatment center placement for educational purposes.”].) While documents are
only judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made
such that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885), judicial notice may be
taken as to the existence of a document and legal effects deriving therefrom. (Julian
Volunteer Fire Co. Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 583, 600 (Julian).)
Based on the above
discussion—particularly application of Education Code section 56167,
subdivision (a), and Government Code section 7579.1 to the facts—the Court
determines that the various grounds alleged in the FAC to support the
negligence claim against LAUSD are unavailing, i.e., subdivisions (a)-(f). This
is because these allegations are premised on LAUSD’s failure to assume
educational responsibility over S.C. during S.C.’s time at College Hospital and
failure to prepare for or make agreements with the other Defendants relating to
S.C.’s eventual discharge from College Hospital. As discussed in the preceding
paragraph, application of Education Code section 56167, subdivision (a), and
Government Code section 7579.1 to the alleged facts, as well as the legal
effect of the OAH ruling show, for pleading purposes, that ABC Unified was
responsible for S.C.’s education needs during S.C.’s more than three years at College
Hospital. As stated by the OAH, it appears from the record here that “[t]he
10-day notice of [S.C.’s] impending discharge under Government Code section
7579.1 (a)(1) would have legally triggered LAUSD’s responsibility, as the
receiving LEA, to prepare for implementing the IEP upon discharge[,] [but]
[h]ere, College Hospital never scheduled a discharge date[,] [and] [a]s a
result, LAUSD was not given notice of discharge[,] [for which reason] LAUSD had
no legal duty to become involved in the preparation, creation or implementation
of [S.C.’s] IEP during the relevant time period.” (Demurrer, RJN, Ex. A, p. 26
[decision dated Jul. 21, 2020]; see FAC, ¶¶ 135, 139, 250 [no notice as of
discharge date in 2021].)
Subparagraphs (g)-(k) similarly
fail insofar as those grounds for negligence are premised on LAUSD’s duties
during S.C.’s time at College Hospital, as discussed in the preceding paragraph.
To the extent that these subparagraphs rely on LAUSD’s duties after notice of
S.C.’s discharge, the FAC specifically alleges that LAUSD never received notice
of S.C.’s discharge from College Hospital, thus failing to trigger duties under
Government Code section 7579.1, as discussed by the OAH. (FAC, ¶¶ 173, 250; Demurrer,
RJN, Ex. A, p. 26.) The FAC also alleges that LAUSD secured the placement in
Massachusetts prior to receiving notice and that LAUSD subsequently funded the
placement. (FAC, ¶¶ 29, 178, 181, 250.) Moreover, the FAC alleges that the
County placed S.C. at College Hospital on November 30, 2017, not LAUSD,
undercutting the discrimination component of Plaintiff’s claims through S.C.’s
undue placement at College Hospital as a person with mental disabilities. (FAC,
¶¶ 115, 250; see Olmstead v. L.C. ex rel. Zimring
(1999) 527 U.S. 581, 582 (Olmstead) [Undue institutionalization of
persons with mental disabilities qualifies as “discrimination” by reason of
disability].)
As to subparagraphs (e) and (f), the
FAC alleges that LAUSD participated in some of the IEP meetings that took place
prior to Plaintiff S.C.’s discharge from College Hospital to determine which
district needed to undertake educational responsibility over S.C. (see, e.g.,
FAC, ¶¶ 135, 139, 250), for which reason there does not appear to be a lack of
collaboration alleged in the FAC against LAUSD—questions of statutory scheme,
mandatory duties, and private right of action aside. (See Ed. Code, §56195.7,
subd. (j)(3).)
As to subparagraph (g), it is not
clear from the FAC that LAUSD was under the duty to report any violation of the
law by College Hospital through failure to issue a discharge date or otherwise
discharge S.C. The FAC alleges LAUSD’s consistent position that it was not
responsible for S.C.’s educational placement needs while at College Hospital
and that it would only be responsible for S.C. once he was discharged and
return to LAUSD boundaries, a position disputed by ABC Unified, which led to
protracted IEP meetings that did not benefit S.C., and S.C. filing an
administrative claim with the OAH to vindicate his rights, with the OAH
agreeing with LAUSD. Not until the OAH decision was that dispute resolved. (FAC,
¶¶ 115-171.)
The Court refers to the above
discussion to further determine that paragraphs 197-199 and 201-203 of the FAC
do not support a negligence claim against LAUSD.
For these reasons, subparagraphs
(g)-(k) do not support the negligence claim against LAUSD.
The Court therefore SUSTAINS
LAUSD’s demurrer to the FAC’s third cause of action. 
Because the Court has sustained the
demurrer against the third cause of action on the above stated grounds, the
Court need not discuss the other theories supporting the demurrer against this
claim, as applicable.
II.
First Amended Complaint, Fifth
Cause of Action, Violations of California Government Code § 11135: SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
With respect to discrimination on
the basis of disability, programs and activities subject to subdivision (a) [of
section 11135] shall meet the protections and prohibitions contained in Section
202 of the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec.
12132), and the federal rules and regulations adopted in implementation
thereof, except that if the laws of this state prescribe stronger protections
and prohibitions, the programs and activities subject to subdivision (a) shall
be subject to the stronger protections and prohibitions. (Gov. Code, § 11135,
subd. (b).)
The FAC’s fifth cause of action
states a Violation of California Government Code § 11135 claim against various
Defendants including LAUSD. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190 [allegations summarized in
Background supra], 197-199 [allegations against LAUSD summarized], 201-203 [general
allegations against all Defendants summarized], 282-289 [general allegations of
fifth cause of action, which incorporate prior allegations], 335-357 [specific
allegations against LAUSD re: this cause of action].)
In its demurrer, LAUSD argues that
the FAC alleges grounds for finding that it did not violate section 11135
because the FAC alleges that the County placed S.C. in College Hospital, not
LAUSD, and that during S.C.’s stay at College Hospital, ABC Unified was
responsible for preparing and implementing an IEP for Plaintiff S.C. LAUSD also
argues that the FAC alleges that LAUSD never received notice of S.C.’s
discharge from College Hospital, thus failing to trigger its duties to S.C.
(Demurrer, p. 12.)
In opposition, Plaintiff S.C.
points to paragraphs 260 to 268 of the FAC, which alleges “that LAUSD refused
as a matter of policy to accept any notice of discharge because it required
S.C. to be physically present in its geographic boundaries before it would take
any action to implement S.C.’s IEP, that LAUSD excluded or denied S.C. the
benefits of its programs solely on the basis of his disability,) and [that
LAUSD] failed to engage in its interagency responsibilities.” Plaintiff argues
these paragraphs support disability discrimination because the FAC thus alleges
that (1) LAUSD engaged in a practice and policy that categorically denied all
qualified disabled students who resided at College Hospital, including S.C.,
from the benefits of its special education programs; (2) LAUSD engaged in
methods of administration that excluded and otherwise discriminated against
S.C; (3) LAUSD failed to make reasonable modifications in policies, practices,
or procedures where necessary to avoid discrimination on the basis of
disability; and (4) LAUSD perpetuated the discrimination of other entities
and/or otherwise excluded or denied S.C. the benefits of its programs, all
solely on the basis of his disability. (Opp’n, pp. 12-13, citing FAC, ¶¶
260-268.)
In reply, LAUSD rebuts S.C.’s
arguments on opposition and elaborates on the moving papers, arguing that LAUSD
merely complied with the law, specifically Education Code section 7579, which
was never triggered for lack of notice, where L.A. County, not LAUSD, placed S.C.
in College Hospital; ABC Unified, not LAUSD, was responsible for S.C.’s educational
placement needs at College Hospital; and LAUSD located and funded placement for
S.C. in Massachusetts following S.C.’s discharge. (Reply, pp. 4-6.)
The Court finds in favor of LAUSD.
The Court first adopts the
discussion in Section I above to determine that no wrongful conduct was alleged
against LAUSD, which, based on the FAC’s allegations, complied with its duties
under the law.
The Court next determines that the
FAC fails to sufficiently allege other than conclusorily how LAUSD’s conduct
was influenced wrongfully by S.C.’s actual or perceived disabilities or other
conditions. (See Section I discussion supra [no discrimination because FAC
alleges L.A. County, not LAUSD, placed S.C. at College Hospital].)
 The Court therefore SUSTAINS LAUSD’s demurrer
to the FAC’s fifth cause of action.
Because the Court has sustained the
demurrer against the third cause of action on the above stated grounds, the
Court need not discuss the other theories supporting the demurrer against this
claim, as applicable.
III.
First Amended Complaint, Sixth
Cause of Action, Violations of California Education Code §§ 200, 220: SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
It is the policy of the State of
California to afford all persons in public schools, regardless of their
disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic that is
contained in the definition of hate crimes set forth in Section 422.55 of the
Penal Code, including immigration status, equal rights, and opportunities in
the educational institutions of the state. (Ed. Code, § 200.)
No person shall be subjected to
discrimination on the basis of disability, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or
any other characteristic that is contained in the definition of hate crimes set
forth in Section 422.55 of the Penal Code, including immigration status, in any
program or activity conducted by an educational institution that receives, or
benefits from, state financial assistance, or enrolls pupils who receive state
student financial aid. (Ed. Code, § 220.)
The FAC’s sixth cause of action
states a Violation of California Government Code §§ 200, 220 claim against
various Defendants, including LAUSD. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190 [allegations
summarized in Background supra], 197-199 [allegations summarized against LAUSD summarized],
201-203 [general allegations against all Defendants summarized], 282-289 [general
allegations of fifth cause of action, which incorporate prior allegations],
335-357 [specific allegations against LAUSD re: this cause of action].)
Because this claim is premised on
disability discrimination, which the Court found unavailing in Section II
above, the Court SUSTAINS LAUSD’s demurrer to the FAC’s sixth cause of action.
 
Request for Judicial Notice [Defendants ABC Unified and Gee]
Per
Defendants ABC Unified and Gee’s request, the court takes judicial notice of
(1) Plaintiff S.C.’s November 6, 2020 government claim against ABC Unified, (2)
ABC Unified’s notice of rejection and notice of untimeliness of S.C.’s
government claim, and (3) the July OAH decision. (Demurrer, RJN, p. 2, Exs.
1-3; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subds. (c), (d), 453, subds. (a)-(b); see also Julian,
supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 600 [judicial notice may be taken as to
existence of document and legal effects deriving therefrom].)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
[Plaintiff S.C.]
Per
Plaintiff S.C.’s request, the court takes judicial notice of an order made in
the federal court proceedings relating to motions to dismiss that action, as
filed by former Defendant SCLARC and Defendants LAUSD, L.A. County, and ABC
Unified and Gee. (Demurrer, RJN, p. 1, Ex. A; see Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd.
(d), 453, subds. (a)-(b); see also Julian, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at
p. 600 [judicial notice may be taken as to existence of document and legal
effects deriving therefrom].)
 
Evidentiary Objections [Plaintiff
S.C.]
Opposition
Objections to Demurrer’s RJN’s Exs. A-B
Objections:
OVERRULED [legal effect].
 
Demurrer [Defendants ABC Unified and
Gee]

Legal Standard
See above in Demurrer [Defendant College
Hospital] discussion.
I.
First Amended Complaint, Second
Cause of Action, Negligence: OVERRULED.
“‘The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are … “(a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”’” (Ladd, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 917.)
The FAC’s second cause of action
states a negligence claim against Defendants ABC Unified and Gee on various
statutory and common law duty grounds and based on breaches of those duties during
the time ABC Unified and Gee were responsible for S.C.’s educational placement
needs. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190 [allegations summarized in Background supra], 200
[allegations against ABC Unified and Gee summarized], 201-203 [general
allegations against all Defendants summarized], 227-249 [second cause of
action, which incorporates prior allegations].)
In their demurrer, ABC Unified and
Gee first argue that the entire FAC is defective either for failure to comply
with the Government Claims Act (GCA)—lack of timeliness in filing within six
months of denial of the accrual of the cause of action—or for failure to
exhaust administrative remedies against ABC Unified and Gee prior to filing
this action. ABC Unified and Gee otherwise argue that the negligence claim is
not sufficiently alleged because none of the sources of duty alleged in the FAC
for the purposes of establishing negligence against ABC Unified and Gee set
forth a mandatory duty upon which ABC Unified and Gee may be held liable for
negligence. (Demurrer, pp. 10-18.)
In opposition, Plaintiff S.C.
argues that the GCA was satisfied because the continuing violations doctrine
applies to the facts alleged in the FAC, such that ABC Unified and Gee’s
statutory violations against S.C. did not accrue until February 9, 2021, when
S.C. was released from College Hospital. Plaintiff S.C. also argues that a
recent United States Supreme Court decision—Luna Perez v. Sturgis Public
Schools (Mar. 21, 2023) 598 U.S. 142, 146-148 (Luna)—holds that when
a plaintiff seeks remedies in an ADA, Section 504, or other non-IDEA federal
discrimination action, the plaintiff need not bring an administrative claim as
to those remedies even if the matter is rooted in a special education dispute,
if the remedies are not also available under the IDEA. Plaintiff notes that
these arguments were raised by ABC Unified and Gee in the federal court
proceedings and rejected there. (Opp’n, pp. 6-9.)
Plaintiff S.C. otherwise argues
that the FAC sufficiently alleges negligence based on a special relationship
between S.C. on one side and ABC Unified and Gee on the other, that ABC Unified
and Gee breached those duties by failing to consider an educational placement
for S.C., by collaborating with LAUSD and other Defendants to fund S.C.’s
educational placement, and by failing to report Defendants’ failure to
agreement on S.C.’s educational placement needs and College Hospital’s failure
to release S.C. Plaintiff adds that the legislative intent of the statutory
duties cited in the FAC created a statutory scheme meant to protect disabled,
foster children and youth from inaction from California agencies, e.g., playing
“hot potato” with S.C. in failing to take responsibility for S.C.’s placement.
Last, S.C. distinguishes authority cited by ABC Unified and Gee for the purpose
of showing that mandatory duty exists here—Keech v. Berkeley Unified School
Dist. (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 464 (Keech) and Tirpak v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 639 (Tirpak)—and advances
his own authority in support of his position for duty—Doe v. Albany Unif.
Sch. Dist. (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 668 (Doe). (Opp’n, pp. 9-14.)
In reply, ABC Unified and Gee argue
that the opposition does not sufficiently cite authority or elaborate its issue
preclusion argument relating to the GCA and failure to exhaust administrative
remedies issues. ABC Unified and Gee also distinguish the continuing violations
doctrine by argument that one of the doctrine’s essential elements—the unlawful
actions must have not acquired a degree of permanence (Richards v. CH2M
Hill, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 823 (Richards))—is not
sufficiently alleged in the FAC where, as of at least December 2019, the
alleged violations of S.C.’s rights by ABC Unified and Gee had acquired a
degree of permanence, e.g., the violations prompted S.C. to file the OAH
complaint at that time. ABC Unified and Gee otherwise distinguish the
unpublished federal authority cited in the opposition. (Reply, pp. 4-5.)
ABC Unified and Gee also argue that
Perez is distinguishable insofar as liability against ABC Unified and
Gee is partially premised on the Individual with Disability Education
Act, which lies outside of Perez and the circumvention of the exhaustion
of administrative remedies. (Reply, pp. 5-6.)
Last, ABC Unified and Gee address
the sufficiency of the negligence claim itself. These Defendants argue that they
have sufficiently addressed liability pursuant to the statutory authority cited
in the FAC and that S.C. cites no authority in support of an interpretation of
these authorities as a statutory scheme amounting to a mandatory duty from ABC
Unified and Gee to S.C. Defendants ABC Unified and Gee also argue that
Plaintiff S.C. has unsuccessfully distinguished Tirpek and incorrectly
relies on Doe. (Reply, pp. 6-14.)
A.
GCA – Timeliness
After review, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff S.C.
Except for inapplicable exceptions,
any suit brought against a public entity on a cause of action for which a claim
is required to be presented in accordance with Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of Part 3 of Title 1,
Division 3.6 of the Government Code must be commenced, (1) if written notice is
given in accordance with Section 913, not later than six months after the date
such notice is personally delivered or deposited in the mail, or (2) if written
notice is not given in accordance with Section 913, within two years from the
accrual of the cause of action. If the period within which the public entity is
required to act is extended pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 912.4, the
period of such extension is not part of the time limited for the commencement
of the action under subdivision (a). (Gov. Code, § 945.6, subd. (a).)
Accrual of the cause of action for
purposes of the government claims statute is the date of accrual that would
pertain under the statute of limitations applicable to a dispute between
private litigants. (Shirk v. Vista Unified School Dist. (2007) 42
Cal.4th 201, 208-209, superseded by statute as stated in City of Pasadena v.
Superior Court (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1340, 1352.)
The continuing violation doctrine
“allows liability for unlawful ... conduct occurring outside the statute of
limitations if it is sufficiently connected to unlawful conduct within the
limitations period.” (Richards, supra, 26 Cal.4th at
p. 802.) The relevant factors of the doctrine are described in Richards: a
court must consider “whether ‘the employer's actions (1) … [were] sufficiently
similar in kind—recognizing ... that similar kinds of unlawful employer
conduct, such as acts of harassment or failures to reasonably accommodate
disability, may take a number of different forms [citation]; (2) have occurred
with reasonable frequency; (3) and have not acquired a degree of permanence.’”
(Willis, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1124-1125.)
California courts have determined
that “permanence” in an employment context means that an employer’s actions
make clear to a reasonable employee that any further efforts to end the alleged
unlawful conduct will be futile, or the employer “mak[es] clear to the employee
in a definitive manner” that the employee’s requests have been rejected. (Richards,
supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 802; see Brome v. California
Highway Patrol (2020) 44 Cal.App.4th 786, 799; Cucuzza v. City of Santa
Clara (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1042 (Cucuzza).) Under Richards,
the statute of limitations begins to run either when the unlawful course of
conduct ends, “or when the employee is on notice that further efforts to
end the unlawful conduct will be in vain.” (Richards, supra, at
p. 823; Cucuzza, supra, at p. 1042.)
Here, based on the allegations in
the FAC, the Court cannot say that a degree of permanence was reached as of
December 2019. Indeed, the entire purpose of the OAH proceeding was to
vindicate S.C.’s educational placement rights, for which reason it cannot be
said that S.C.’s efforts to end the unlawful conduct would be in vain. Moreover,
the FAC alleges that ABC Unified and Gee held ongoing IEP meetings to determine
S.C.’s education placement up to the time of the OAH decision and that the OAH
ordered that ABC Unified develop an IEP for S.C. thereafter, with ABC Unified
ultimately complying, if not by the time set out by the OAH. (FAC, ¶¶ 130, 136,
145, 153, 178, 227.)
ABC Unified and Gee’s arguments on
this issue are thus unavailing.
B. Exhaustion
of Administrative Remedies
After review, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff S.C.
A demurrer must dispose of an
entire cause of action, not portions thereof. Kong
v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th
1028, 1047 [“A demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause
of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy”]; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.50, subd. (a) [A demurrer can be made to an entire complaint or individual
causes of action therein].) A motion to strike is generally used to reach
defects in a pleading that are not subject to demurrer. (Pierson v. Sharp
Memorial Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342.)
While ABC Unified and Gee argue
that portions of the second cause of action are encompassed by the Individuals
with Disability Education Act, they do not argue that the entire claim is
premised on that Act as to foreclose application of the Supreme Court’s unanimous
decision in Perez.
ABC Unified and Gee’s arguments on
this issue are thus unavailing.
C.
Sufficiency of Negligence Claim
After review, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff S.C.
The FAC alleges a special
relationship between Gee and S.C. by virtue of Gee’s position as the Director
of ABC Unified’s Special Education Plan Area (SELPA), his control over
Plaintiff’s placement, care, education, and multiple disabilities, Plaintiff’s
age, special needs, and inability to defend himself. (FAC, ¶ 235; see also FAC,
¶¶ 236-238.) 
The FAC alleges ABC Unified’s and
Gee’s statutory duties to S.C. by virtue of “California Education Code §§ 48850
(h), 56167, 56195.7(j), 56205, 56342, and 56343(d), California Government Code
§ 7579.1, McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. § 11431, et seq.,
and Title 34 of the California Code of Regulations, § 300.115(a)” from November
30, 2017, through February 2021. (FAC, ¶¶ 239-240; see also FAC, ¶¶ 244-248.)
The Court notes that it
specifically relies on Education Code section 56167 to determine that because
the FAC alleges grounds to determine that College Hospital was located in ABC
Unified’s geographic boundaries for pleading purposes (see Demurrer [Defendant
LAUSD], § 1 discussion supra), S.C. was “the educational responsibility of [ABC
Unified, i.e.,] the local educational agency in which [College Hospital] [wa]s
located.” (Ed. Code, § 56167, subd. (a).) The Court also relies on the FAC’s
allegations of more than three years of inaction by ABC Unified and Gee insofar
as these Defendants did not accept responsibility for the educational placement
needs of Plaintiff, which resulted in S.C. languishing in College Hospital for
a prolong period of time, to his alleged physical and mental detriment. (FAC,
¶¶ 115-187, 227.)
While the demurrer argues that the
FAC also alleged instances when ABC Unified and Gee provided educational
programming (Demurrer, p. 16, citing FAC, ¶¶ 130, 136, 142, 144-145, 149, 152,
157), the FAC also alleges that these Defendants did not take responsibility
for the continued failure to properly place S.C. in an educational placement,
which did not occur until February 2021, after the July 21, 2020 OAH decision
ordered that ABC Unified comply with its duties within 30 days. (FAC, ¶¶
164-187, 227.) To the extent that other portions of statutory liability are
challenged, a motion to strike would have been the more appropriate procedural
vehicle. The Court also determines that Tripak and Keech are not
helpful insofar as the purpose of section 56167 was to prevent the type of harm
alleged here: maintenance of education placement needs, resulting in
discrimination through undue institutionalization of a person with mental
disabilities. (Olmstead, supra, 527 U.S. at p. 582.)
The FAC also alleges breaches of
those duties through allegations amounting to violations of the Individuals
with Disability Education Act, as well as failure to take educational
responsibility for S.C. at a time during which ABC Unified and Gee were
responsible for S.C.’s education placement needs, with these Defendants’
nonaction resulting in S.C. languishing in College Hospital for more than three
years without receiving proper care. (FAC, ¶ 240-240(j).)
The FAC last alleges causation and
damages. (FAC, ¶¶ 241-243, 249.)
ABC Unified and Gee’s arguments on
this issue are thus unavailing.
ABC Unified and Gee’s demurrer to
this second cause of action is thus OVERRULED.
II.
First Amended Complaint, Fifth
Cause of Action, Violations of California Government Code § 11135: SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
With respect to discrimination on
the basis of disability, programs and activities subject to subdivision (a) [of
section 11135] shall meet the protections and prohibitions contained in Section
202 of the federal Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. Sec.
12132), and the federal rules and regulations adopted in implementation
thereof, except that if the laws of this state prescribe stronger protections
and prohibitions, the programs and activities subject to subdivision (a) shall
be subject to the stronger protections and prohibitions. (Gov. Code, § 11135,
subd. (b).)
The FAC’s fifth cause of action
states a Violation of California Government Code § 11135 claim against various
Defendants including ABC Unified and Gee. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190 [allegations
summarized in Background supra], 200 [allegations against ABC Unified and Gee summarized],
201-203 [general allegations against all Defendants summarized], 282-289
[incorporation and general allegations], 317-334 [specific allegations against ABC
Unified and Gee re: this cause of action].)
In connection with this claim, S.C.
prays for nominal damages, general damages, special damages, expectational
damages, compensatory damages, attorney fees and costs, as well as equitable
and injunctive relief. (FAC, ¶¶ 358-359, Prayer, ¶¶ 2(b), 2(c), 2(g).)
After review, the Court agrees with
ABC Unified and Gee.
A cause of action premised on
Education Code section 11135 can only seek equitable relief. (Donovan v.
Poway Unified School Dist. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 594.) As a result,
the monetary relief sought in the FAC in relation to the fifth cause of action
is improper. The opposition does not respond to this position, instead focusing
on the sufficiency of the claim rather than the propriety of the requested
damages and other relief. (Opp’n, pp. 14-16.)
Moreover, the equitable relief
sought in the FAC is not proper. “Where a petitioner seeks declaratory or
injunctive relief, it is insufficient that he has been injured in the past; ‘he
must instead show a very significant possibility of future harm in order to
have standing.’[]” (Coral Construction, Inc. v. City and County of San Francisco
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 6, 17, citing Bras v. California Public Utilities Com’n
(9th Cir. 1995) 59 F.3d 869, 873].) Here, the requested equitable relief does
not show future harm to S.C. so much as (1) plans for educational placement
needs at a time during which S.C. is in Massachusetts and intends to remain
there until the completion of educational protections on June 29, 2024 or (2)
safeguards to avoid future harms to similarly situated individuals. (FAC, ¶¶ 29,
282, 358-359, Prayer, ¶¶ 2(b), 2(c), 2(g).) Yet, there is an insufficient
significant possibility of future harm where the FAC alleges that S.C.’s
special education services will end on June 29, 2024, and where SCLARC is now allegedly
planning for S.C.’s services and placement needs in anticipation of his return
to California. (FAC, ¶¶ 29, 190, 282.) This position is also not addressed in
the opposition. (Opp’n, pp. 14-16.)
ABC Unified and Gee’s demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is thus SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
III.
First Amended Complaint, Sixth
Cause of Action, Violations of California Education Code §§ 200, 220: OVERRULED.
It is the policy of the State of
California to afford all persons in public schools, regardless of their
disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or
ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic that is
contained in the definition of hate crimes set forth in Section 422.55 of the
Penal Code, including immigration status, equal rights, and opportunities in
the educational institutions of the state. The purpose of this chapter is to
prohibit acts that are contrary to that policy and to provide remedies
therefor. (Ed. Code, § 200.)
No person shall be subjected to
discrimination on the basis of disability, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, nationality, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or
any other characteristic that is contained in the definition of hate crimes set
forth in Section 422.55 of the Penal Code, including immigration status, in any
program or activity conducted by an educational institution that receives, or
benefits from, state financial assistance, or enrolls pupils who receive state
student financial aid. (Ed. Code, § 220.)
The FAC’s sixth cause of action
states a Violation of California Government Code §§ 200, 220 claim against
various Defendants, including LAUSD. (See FAC, ¶¶ 27-190 [allegations
summarized in Background supra], 200 [allegations summarized against LAUSD summarized],
201-203 [general allegations against all Defendants summarized], 360-369
[incorporation and cause of action].)
After review, the Court adopts its
discussion in Section I above to determine that the FAC alleges discrimination
by ABC Unified and Gee against S.C. through undue placement at College Hospital
as a person with mental disabilities. (See Olmstead, supra, 527
U.S. at p. 582 (Olmstead) [Undue institutionalization of persons with
mental disabilities qualifies as “discrimination” by reason of disability].)
ABC Unified and Gee’s demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is thus OVERRULED. 
Conclusion
I.
Defendant College Hospital, Inc.
dba College Hospital’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint [CRS#
4003] is:
(1) OVERRULED as to the fourth
cause of action; and
(2) SUSTAINED as to the fifth cause
of action without leave to amend.
II.
Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint [CRS# 1058] is SUSTAINED,
with leave to amend.
III.
Defendants ABC Unified School
District and William Gee’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
[CRS# 3643] is:
(1) OVERRULED as to the second and
sixth causes of action; and
(2) SUSTAINED, with leave to amend,
as to the fifth cause of action.