 Case Number:  23SMCV06063    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Account Management Services v. Gallardo,
Case no. 23SMCV06063
Hearing date November 6, 2024
Defendant’s
Motion to Set Aside Default (Supplemental Declarations)
Plaintiff
sues for $79,435 in unpaid medical expenses as assignee of defendant Mary
Gallardo’s health care provider. The complaint was filed 12/29/23. The proof of
service shows substitute service on “Robert Gallardo – Son/Co Resident” on
1/11/24. After defendant failed to answer, default was entered 2/23/2024 and
default judgement on 3/29/24. Defendant Gallardo filed this motion to set aside
on 8/22/24. 
Defendant
asserts she never received notice due to allegedly defective substitute service
on her son. Min. Order 9/24/24. Defense counsel Stein’s 8/22/24 hearsay
declaration states defendant was receiving medical treatment on the date of
service. Decl. Stein para. 4. However, defendant provided no declaration
herself, and no information was provided as to when defendant actually learned
of the lawsuit. Min. Order 9/24/24. Attorney Stein stated he learned of the
default on the court website (para. 2) but fails to provide information
regarding the date he so learned.
The
court’s tentative ruling was to grant the motion to set aside the default, see
Min. Order 9/24/24. However, the court ordered defendant to submit declarations
from defendant Gallardo, so the court could be provided with information about
her whereabouts on the date of service and the date she learned of the lawsuit.
The court also ordered defendant to provide a declaration from her son, the
alleged recipient of notice, so the court could determine whether service was
actually effectuated on defendant’s son. Id. The court finally ordered attorney
Stein to submit a declaration as to when he learned of the default and to
provide a proposed responsive pleading, so the court could determine the
timeliness of the request to set aside the default. Id.
Instead,
defendant submitted a hearsay declaration from her daughter Alana Gallardo, stating
defendant suffered traumatic brain injuries between November 2023 and January
2024 and was being treated in the hospital at time of the alleged service.
Decl. Gallardo paras. 3-5. Defendant’s counsel Stein offers a supplemental
declaration with a proposed responsive pleading but fails to declare when he
learned of the default, as ordered by the court. Defendant fails to offer a
declaration from her son regarding service, as ordered by the court.
Defense
counsel Stein failed to comply with court orders requesting declarations from
defendant, her son and counsel. Further, as plaintiff notes (see Bemis supp.
decl., para. 3), much of Stein’s supplemental declaration is hearsay. Despite
the court’s explicit order, defendant failed to provide the information the
court requested and required to justify setting aside the default. DENIED.