  Case Number:  19SMCV01908    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Stiffelman v. Rubin, Case no. 19SMCV01908
Hearing date November 6, 2024
Defendant’s
Request to Bifurcate, or in the Alternative, for Permission to file a MSJ
Plaintiff
Gary Stiffelman and defendant Stuart Rubin (“Stuart”) agreed to develop a
hotel. Stuart Rubin hired his son Joseph Rubin (“Joseph”) to help oversee the
project. Plaintiff alleges both Rubins mismanaged the project and
misappropriated funds. Defendant Joseph seeks to bifurcate the claims against himself
and Stuart, or in the alternative for permission to file an MSJ. 
When
the court held a Vesco hearing regarding Stuart’s medical condition (see
Min. Order 10/14/24), it also heard argument regarding bifurcation and ordered
the parties to file 10-page briefs. Stiffelman filed 43 pages of exhibits; the
Rubins filed 208 pages of declarations and exhibits.
Code
Civ. Proc. §598 permits bifurcation “when the convenience of witnesses, the
ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would
be promoted thereby.” See also Trickey v. Superior Court (1967)
252 Cal. App. 2d 650, 653 (noting §598’s purpose “is avoidance of the waste of
time and money”). Similarly, Code Civ. Proc. §379.5 permits separate trials “to
prevent any party from being embarrassed, delayed, or put to undue expense” or
“as the interests of justice may require.”
Only
three causes of action are alleged as against Joseph: fraud in the inducement,
negligent misrepresentation and derivative unjust enrichment. Twenty causes of
action are alleged against Stuart. Joseph argues Stuart is not a necessary
witness in Stiffelman’s action against him, so Stuart’s availability does not
prevent Stiffelman from litigating his claims against Joseph. Joseph notes Stuart
failed to participate in the litigation and asserts Stuart will likely be
defaulted, meaning litigation against Joseph would result in practical
bifurcation, even if not ordered by the court. Joseph argues continued delays
prejudice him via cost, reputation and time.
Stiffelman
argues bifurcation would be inefficient and result in substantial duplication. He
asserts both defendants, as well as many third-party witnesses, will be
necessary at a trial involving either Rubin. Stiffelman asserts Stuart’s
testimony is necessary against Joseph, so trial against Joseph cannot proceed without
Stuart, regardless of bifurcation. Stiffelman argues Joseph’s assertions of a
3-day trial are unrealistic, with anywhere from 35.5 to 73 hours of anticipated
witness testimony contemplated. The court agrees.
There
is significant risk of overlap and inefficiency should the court bifurcate two
interrelated cases. Joseph’s assertions that claims against him can be
litigated in three days are unrealistic. Though the court declines to bifurcate,
Joseph will be allowed to file a motion for summary judgment. Joseph asserts he
requires 30-60 days to prepare moving papers. As Joseph argued the scope of the
claims against him were so narrow, the court assumes papers could be filed
within 30 days.