 Case Number:  24SMCV05074    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
ACRL 100, LLC v. J. J. Pacific
Investment Co., Case no. 24SMCV05074
Hearing date November 6, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Ex Parte Application for Temporary Restraining Order and OSC Re:
Preliminary Injunction
Plaintiff
ACRL 100 sues defendants J. J. Pacific Investment Co., AC Investment Group for
quiet title and nuisance COAs in this suit arising from an alleged prescriptive
easement over defendants’ property that allowed access to plaintiff's parking
lot, and which defendants allegedly obstructed. Plaintiff applies ex parte
for a temporary restraining order restraining defendants from obstructing
access to plaintiff’s parking lot and for an OSC re: preliminary injunction,
with supporting declarations of former property owner Fischer, counsel Kaplan
and property manager Weintraub. Defendants oppose, offering declarations of Ahn
and tenant Chaudry. 
Plaintiff
owns commercial property and a narrow parking lot at PCH and Entrada in Santa
Monica. Decl. Weintraub para. 3. Defendants’ property and attached parking lot
sit between plaintiff’s property and plaintiff's parking lot. Decl. Weintraub
paras. 8, 11. Access to plaintiff's parking lot is alleged to run over
defendants’ parking lot via prescriptive easement. Decl. Weintraub para. 17. Defendants
recently installed bollards and chains preventing access to defendants’ lot
from plaintiff’s lot, narrowing access to plaintiff’s lot and reducing the
available parking spaces. Decl. Weintraub paras. 33-42. 
Evidentiary Objections
Defendants’
objections to Weintraub declaration: Objections 1-10, 12-31 OVERRULED,
Objection 11 SUSTAINED (hearsay). 
Defendants’
objections to Fischler declaration: Objections 1-2 OVERRULED.
Plaintiff’s
objection to Ahn declaration: Objections 1-6, 8-18, 20 OVERRULED, objections 7,
19 SUSTAINED (hearsay). 
Plaintiff’s
objections to Chaudry declaration: Objections 1, 3-4 OVERRULED, objections 2, 5
SUSTAINED (hearsay).
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte
Application for TRO and OSC re: Preliminary Injunction
Pursuant
to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§526 and 527 the court may issue an injunction if
sufficient grounds are shown. The general purpose of a preliminary injunction
is to preserve the status quo until a final determination of the merits. See
Continental Baking Co. v. Katz (1968) 68 Cal.2d 512, 528. The court
evaluates two interrelated factors: (1) likelihood movant will prevail on the
merits; and (2) interim harm movant is likely to sustain if the injunction were
denied as compared to the harm the party opposing the injunction is likely to
suffer if the injunction issued. See IT Corp. v. Cty. of Imperial (1983)
35 Cal.3d 63, 69–70.
Plaintiff
argues access to its parking lot is via a prescriptive easement over
defendants’ property that has been used adversely, openly and notoriously by
plaintiff and plaintiff’s predecessors in interest since 1970. Decl. Weintraub
paras. 24-27. Plaintiff asserts between 9/30/24-10/28/24 defendants installed
bollards, chains and fences that prevent access to defendants’ parking lot and
disrupt the status quo. Decl. Weintraub paras. 42-43; exs. 13 and 14. 
Defendants
argue plaintiff failed to properly serve the ex parte application, so
the application should not be considered. As defendants filed opposition and
objections, the court elects to consider the application. 
Plaintiff
alleges open and notorious use of defendant’s parking lot for over five years
supports finding a prescriptive easement. See Warsaw v. Chicago
Metallic Ceilings, Inc. (1984) 35 Cal. 3d 564, 570. Plaintiff demonstrates
defendants knew of and opposed plaintiff's use of defendants’ lot. Decl.
Weintraub paras. 24-27. 
Defendants
argue plaintiff’s use of defendants’ parking lot was not open and notorious but
a neighborly accommodation. Decl. Ahn paras. 13, 17. Defendants assert
plaintiff’s use of defendants’ lot has occurred for less than five years,
beginning in January 2021. Decl. Ahn paras. 12-13. Defendants assert plaintiffs
did not remove the initial bollards or begin tandem parking until 2021. Decl. Chaudhry
para. 10.
Defendants
note plaintiff points to tenant Chaudry’s displeasure with plaintiff’s use of
the lot as evidence of adverse use. Decl. Weintraub paras. 24-27. Defendants
assert Chaudry’s opposition to plaintiff's use does not satisfy the adverse
requirement for a prescriptive easement, as Chaudry is a tenant, and the owners
gave neighborly accommodation for the use. Decl. Ahn para. 13.
Plaintiff
argues it will be harmed if an injunction does not issue. Plaintiff states the
presence of bollards and chains drastically reduces its ability to utilize its
lot, reducing its capacity from 14 to 3 parking spaces, and defendants erected
a fence preventing plaintiff’s customers from accessing plaintiff’s property
via defendants’ lot. Decl. Weintraub para. 33-43. 
Defendants
assert plaintiff removed the chains between the bollards on 10/28/24. Decl. Ahn
para. 24. Defendants argue they will suffer harm if an injunction issues.
Defendants assert plaintiff’s customers impede customers and limit parking in
defendants’ own parking lot by idling their cars and harassing patrons. Decl. Chaudhry
paras. 11-13. Defendants assert there is no basis for ex parte relief
that justifies the potential harm to defendants. Defendants argue plaintiff has
only engaged in tandem parking since 2001, so being restricted from defendants’
lot does not dramatically restrict plaintiff’s historical parking capacity.
The
court finds no exigent circumstances necessitating ex parte relief. The parties
offer contradictory declarations regarding existence of a prescriptive
easement, the length of plaintiff’s use of defendants’ property and potential
harms to the parties. DENIED.