 Case Number:  23STCV02414    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default
Against Specially Appearing Defendant Jason Oh
 
Moving Party: Specially-Appearing
Defendant Jason Oh
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Gene Park
 
        
        The Motion is GRANTED. The default
entered against Specially-Appearing Defendant Jason Oh is SET ASIDE.
Specially-Appearing Defendant Jason Oh has seven (7) days from the issuance of
this Order to file his proposed motion to quash service of summons. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
        As
indicated, the Court intends to GRANT Defendant Oh’s motion to set aside the
default against him.  The Court would
like to hear from Plaintiff’s counsel if Plaintiff intends to litigate this
matter against Defendant Oh, or alternatively, to dismiss Oh from the lawsuit
and seek Entry of Default Judgement against the other three defendants.
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On February 3, 2023, Plaintiff Gene Park filed his
Complaint against Defendants Camino Industries LLC, Philip Camino, Smith Dok,
and Jason Oh on causes of action arising from Plaintiff’s employment by
Defendants. 
 
On July 18, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s
Office entered default on Defendants Smith Dok and Jason Oh.
 
On October 17, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s
Office entered default on Camino Industries LLC and Philip Camino. 
 
On November 3, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant Jason
Oh filed his Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default Against Specially Appearing
Defendant.
 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to
the Motion. In support of his Opposition, Plaintiff concurrently filed
Declaration of Gene Park. 
 
On December 5, 2023, Specially-Appearing Defendant filed
his Reply regarding the Motion. In support of his Reply, Specially-Appearing
Defendant filed Objections to the Declaration of David Osorio, which is
attached to the Opposition. 

 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant filed evidentiary objections to portions
of the Declaration of David Osorio. The following are the Court’s rulings on
these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


SUSTAINED


 




2


SUSTAINED


 




3


SUSTAINED


 




4


SUSTAINED


 




5


SUSTAINED


 




6


SUSTAINED


 




7


 


OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




 
II.      
Legal
Standard
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of
merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
“When service of
a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of
motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).)
 
It has been long held that “the reference in Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5 to ‘actual notice’ means genuine knowledge of the party litigant
and does not contemplate notice imputed to a principal from an attorney’s
actual notice.” (Rosenthal v. Garner (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 891, 895.)
 
“A notice of
motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by
subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5, subd. (b).)
 
“Upon a finding
by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by
subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect, it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as
may be just and allow the party to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473.5, subd. (c).)
 
III.    
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant Jason Oh moves the Court to set aside the
entry of default against him pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b). (Motion, pp. 2:7–13, 4:1–24, 5:13–16.)
 
        Plaintiff opposes the Motion, arguing:
(1) service on Specially-Appearing Defendant was valid; (2) the Motion was not
filed within a reasonable time; and (3) there is no evidence of excusable
mistaken and inadvertence to warranty discretionary relief pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). (Opposition, pp. 6:23, 8:25,
10:3–4.)
 
        In his Reply, Specially-Appearing
Defendant argues: (1) Specially-Appearing Defendant was not properly served so
the default cannot stand; (2) Specially-Appearing Defendant acted diligently in
moving to set aside the default; (3) Specially-Appearing Defendant is entitled
to formal notice of the action; (4) the Motion was timely filed; and (5)
Plaintiff has not suffered any prejudice. (Reply, pp. 2:3, 3:18, 5:22, 6:17,
7:7.) Notably, Specially-Appearing Defendant cites Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5, subdivision (a) for the first time in the Reply. (Reply, pp.
6:19–27, 7:1–5.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant’s Motion and Reply are unclear,
particularly in their arguments. Specifically, there is some conflation of
multiple sections of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
1. 
    Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473.5
 
The Court begins by focusing on whether Specially-Appearing had actual
notice in time to defend the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).)
 
a.  
    The
Evidence Submitted
 
On February 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint. On July 18, 2023,
default was entered on Specially-Appearing Defendant. 
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant declares:
 
(1)      
“In late
2022 a pre-litigation demand letter concerning this matter was emailed to the
restaurant’s general ‘info@imari’ email address. The email was shared with me
by Smith Dok.”
 
(2)      
“I was
represented by attorney Hanwei Cheng in a transactional matter that he was
assisting me with from late 2022 to mid-2023 and discussed this pre-litigation
demand letter with him.” 
 
(3)      
“I deny
ever being served with process in this matter.”
 
(4)      
“I have
reviewed the proof of service which was filed in this matter. . . . Neither Mr.
Wakasugi, nor anyone from Imari has ever given me a copy of the summons or
complaint.” 
 
(5)      
“In
mid-2023 I received correspondence from a law firm related to a disability
access claim at one of my business locations. I immediately asked my Director
of Operations, Fernanda Hay, to follow up with Mr. Cheng.”  
 
(6)      
“When
Ms. Hays reported to me that Mr. Cheng was completely non-responsive to her
several attempts to reach him, I became concerned, and started to look for a
new attorney.”
 
(7)      
“It was
during this process that I first learned my default had been entered in this
matter. I immediately retained new counsel, Martin Horwitz, to represent me in
this matter.”
 
(Motion, Oh Decl.,
¶¶ 4–5, 8–12.)
 
        Fernanda Hay declares:
 
(1)      
“In mid
2023, Mr. Oh asked me to contact his attorney, Hanwei Cheng, to set up a
meeting to discuss a disability access claim Mr. Oh had received for one of his
other business ventures.”
 
(2)      
“On
September 14, 2023, I sent an email to Mr. Cheng. He did not respond to my
inquiry.”
 
(3)      
“I wrote
to him again on October 9, 2023. There was no response from Mr. Cheng.” 
 
(4)      
“On
October 10, 2023, I sent a text expressing my worry about Mr. Oh’s legal
representation and asking if we needed to find a new attorney.” 
 
(5)      
“On
October 12, 2023, I was part of an email chain which transmitted information to
Mr. Cheng regarding the litigation. I am not aware of any response from Mr.
Cheng.”
 
(6)      
“I
reported back to Mr. Oh that Mr. Cheng had not responded to any of my multiple
attempts to get a status update, and that I could not confirm that Mr. Cheng
had taken any action to defend Mr. Oh’s rights in this litigation.”
 
(Motion, Hay Decl.,
¶¶ 2–7.)
 
        Taku Wakasugi declares:
 
(1)      
“I have
only held the position of a waiter at Imari. I have never been a manager,
assistant manager, nor held any type of management role at Imari.”
 
(2)      
“I have
never seen Jason Oh in any management role at Imari at any time. Mr. Oh was not
my boss at Imari and I did not report to, nor take direction from him. I have
never seen Mr. Oh giving instructions to any employee at Imari, nor performing
any type of management role at Imari.”
 
(3)      
“On
April 6, 2023 I was working at the restaurant which took over the space at
13050 San Vicente Blvd., after Imari closed down.”
 
(4)      
“If I
was handed an envelope on April 6, 2023, I would have assumed it was for Mr.
Camino and just left it in the back, as I did with all of the other deliveries
for him.”
 
(5)      
“I did
not tell anyone that I had received a delivery for Mr. Oh and I did not give
anything to Mr. Oh myself. At no time did I ever tell Mr. Oh that anything had
been given to me on his behalf.”
 
(Motion, Wakasugi Decl.,
¶¶ 2–4, 6, 9.)
 
        Plaintiff submits a text message that he
purportedly received on April 3, 2023 from Specially-Appearing Defendant, which
states: “Yo did u [sic] just include me in a lawsuit knowing I had nothing to
do with it and I got scammed too?” (Decl. Park, ¶ 4, Exh. A.) Plaintiff also
declares that someone named Catherine Ayers filed a separate lawsuit against
Specially-Appearing Defendant (and others), and that this separate lawsuit was
filed on the same date as Plaintiff’s lawsuit. (Id. at ¶¶ 2–3.)
 
        Plaintiff also submits email exchanges
between Plaintiff’s Counsel and Specially-Appearing Defendant’s then-counsel,
Hanwei Cheng, about this litigation that occurred during the course of this
litigation. (Opposition, Exh. 3.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
i.           
The
Prelitigation Demand Letter
 
Specially-Appearing Defendant admits to receiving a pre-litigation
demand letter in late 2022 and discussing this letter with his then-counsel. 
 
However, this letter was not sufficient to give Specially-Appearing
Defendant “actual notice” as that term is used in Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5. 
 
The statute uses the phrase “actual notice to a party in time to defend
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) The statute does not use a
different phrase, such as “time to defend the claims.” The explicit use of the
word “action” strongly implies that an action must have been started prior to
one receiving actual notice of it. It is insufficient for the party to have
actual notice of claims upon which someone else may or may not seek to file an
action against the party at some later date. Notice of claims before an action
is filed is simply too speculative to be considered actual notice. 
 
Case law supports this reading of the statute. (See, for example, Luxury
Asset Lending, LLC v. Philadelphia Television Network, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 894, 908 [“Section 473.5 provides relief from default or default
judgment to those defendants who, despite proper service, never received
‘actual notice’ of the lawsuit in time to defendant against it.”
(Emphases added.)]; see also Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 852, 861 [“Section 473.5 grants the trial court discretion to set
aside a default judgment taken against a party who lacked actual notice of
the action . . . .” (Emphases added).].)
 
The
Judicial Council’s Comments to Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 also
support this reading of the statute. (Judicial Council Comments to Code Civ.
Proc., § 473.5 [“At least four facts must be shown by such defendant in his
motion: (1) He received, through no inexcusable fault of his own, no actual
notice of the action in time to appear and defend, and had not
made a general appearance in the action. . . .” (Emphases Added.)].)
 
        Thus, the pre-litigation demand letter
sent months before the action was filed is not the basis for actual notice. 
 
ii.         
The Text
Message Dated April 3, 2023
 
The text message dated April 3, 2023 does not show that Specially-Appearing
Defendant had actual notice of this action. This is because there were
apparently two lawsuits filed at the exact same time against
Specially-Appearing Defendant and the information submitted to the Court does
not clarify whether Specially-Appearing Defendant is referring in this text
message to this lawsuit. 
 
iii.        
Hanwei
Cheng’s Emails
 
The email exchanges between Plaintiff’s Counsel and Specially-Appearing
Defendant’s then-Counsel, Hanwei Cheng, do not support that Specially-Appearing
Defendant had actual notice of the action. (Rosenthal, supra, 142
Cal.App.3d at p. 895.)
 
 
iv.        
Actual
Notice of the Lawsuit
 
There is no evidence submitted that supports Specially-Appearing
Defendant having received actual notice of the lawsuit from the purported
service at 13050 San Vicente Boulevard. Rather, the evidence from
Specially-Appearing Defendant and Taku Wakasugi supports the opposite finding. 
 
The evidence submitted by Specially-Appearing Defendant and Fernanda
Hay indicate: (1) at some point in “mid-2023”, because of another lawsuit,
Specially-Appearing Defendant reached out to Fernanda Hay to follow up with
then-counsel Hanwei Cheng; (2) in September and October, Fernanda Hay followed
up with Hanwei Chang, to no avail; and (3) Specially-Appearing Defendant became
aware of his default in this matter during Fernanda Hay’s unsuccessful follow
ups with Hanwei Chang. 
 
Default was entered on July 18, 2023. 
The evidence submitted to the Court supports a finding that
Specially-Appearing Defendant did not receive actual notice in time to defend
the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) The evidence submitted to
the Court also does not support that Specially-Appearing Defendant’s lack of actual
notice was caused by his avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subds. (b).) Specially-Appearing Defendant moves to set
aside the default within 180 days of entry of default, which is timely. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) Specially-Appearing Defendant includes a copy
of the proposed motion to quash. (Motion, Exh. A; Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5,
subd. (b).)
 
        Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 473.5, the Court sets aside the default. 
 
2. 
    Code
of Civil Procedure Section 473, Subdivision (b)
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).)
 
The Court reiterates the evidence discussed above. 
 
The evidence submitted supports a finding that a default has been taken
against Specially-Appearing Defendant due to inadvertence or surprise. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Within six months of the default,
Specially-Appearing Defendant moves the Court to relieve him from default, and
he includes a copy of his proposed motion to quash. (Ibid.)
 
Given the circumstances at hand, it would be appropriate to exercise
discretion to allow Specially-Appearing Defendant to litigate the merits of
this action. 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), the
Court sets aside the default. 
 
IV.     
Conclusion
 
        The Motion is GRANTED. The default
entered against Specially-Appearing Defendant Jason Oh is SET ASIDE.
Specially-Appearing Defendant Jason Oh has seven (7) days from the issuance of
this Order to file his proposed motion to quash service of summons. 
 
 