 Case Number:  23STCV21245    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Quash Service of Summons 
 
Moving Party: Specially-Appearing
Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby, in propria persona
Resp. Party:    None
 
        
The Motion is GRANTED. The Proof of Service of Summons on
Specially-Appearing Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby is QUASHED. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
        This is an Unlawful Detainer action, in
which service on both named defendants has been quashed.  The Court would like to hear from Plaintiff
whether it intends to pursue this U.D. lawsuit, or whether the case will be
dismissed.  
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September 1, 2023,
Plaintiff Mural Media, LLC 401K Plan filed its Verified Complaint for Unlawful
Detainer against Defendants Linda J. Maultsby and All Unknown Occupants,
Tenants, and Subtenants. 
 
On November 7, 2023,
the Court quashed proof of service of summons on Specially-Appearing Defendant
Linda Maultsby, who is litigating this matter in propria persona.
 
On November 14, 2023,
Specially-Appearing Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby, who is also litigating this
matter in propria persona, filed a separate Motion to Quash Service of
Summons. 
 
No opposition or
other response has been filed to the Motion. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“A summons may be
served by personal delivery of a copy of the summons and of the complaint to
the person to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete
at the time of such delivery. The date upon which personal delivery is made
shall be entered on or affixed to the face of the copy of the summons at the
time of its delivery. However, service of a summons without such date shall be
valid and effective.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
“In lieu of
personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint to the person to be
served as specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50, a
summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during
usual office hours in his or her office or, if no physical address is known, at
his or her usual mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service
post office box, with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. When service is effected by leaving a copy of the summons
and complaint at a mailing address, it shall be left with a person at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
 
“If a copy of the
summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered
to the person to be served, as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,
or usual mailing address other than a United States Postal Service post office
box, in the presence of a competent member of the household or a person
apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a United States Postal Service post office box, at least 18
years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter
mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on
the 10th day after the mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
 
“A summons may be
served by mail as provided in this section. A copy of the summons and of the
complaint shall be mailed (by first-class mail or airmail, postage prepaid) to
the person to be served, together with two copies of the notice and
acknowledgment provided for in subdivision (b) and a return envelope, postage
prepaid, addressed to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
 
“Service of a
summons pursuant to this section is deemed complete on the date a written
acknowledgement of receipt of summons is executed, if such acknowledgement
thereafter is returned to the sender.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (c).)
 
“A summons may be
served on a person outside this state in any manner provided by this article or
by sending a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person to be
served by first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt.
Service of a summons by this form of mail is deemed complete on the 10th day
after such mailing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.40.)
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day
of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for
good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
On November 7, 2023,
the Court quashed the service of summons on Specially-Appearing Defendant Linda
Maultsby. 
 
Specially-Appearing
Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby (who has apparently been sued as one of the “unknown
occupants, tenants, and subtenants” of the property at issue) requests the same
relief on the same basis. 
 
Plaintiff does not
oppose or other provide any reason why service of summons on
Specially-Appearing Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby should not be quashed. 
 
The proof of service
appears defective as to Specially-Appearing Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby for the
same reasons that it appeared defective as to Specially-Appearing Defendant
Linda Maultsby. (See Court Minute Order, 11/7/2023.)  Specifically, it appears that there has not
been proper service due to confusion about where Specially-Appearing Defendants
actually live, which may be because the property at issue is a multi-unit
apartment building with different addresses. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The Motion is GRANTED. The Proof of Service of Summons on Specially-Appearing
Defendant Jaccoma Maultsby is QUASHED. 
 
 