 Case Number:  23STCV29820    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  73 Case Number:  23STCV29820   Hearing Date: June 11, 2024     Dept: 7306/11/2024Dept. 73Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding RUBIO, et al. v. B.V. GENERAL, INC., et al. (23STCV29280) Counsel for Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Tom Allen (Allen Saltzman LLP)Counsel for Defendants/moving party: Thomas McAndrews (Reback, McAndrews, Blessey, LLP) (1)   MOTION TO FILE CONFIDENTIAL DECLARATION OF STEPHEN L. SMITH UNDER SEAL (filed by Defendants on 05/13/2024)(2)   MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT (filed by Defendants on 05/13/2024) TENTATIVE RULING Defendants’ Motion to File Confidential Declaration of Stephen L. Smith Under Seal is GRANTED. Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. BACKGROUND On December 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Anna E. Rubio (“Anna”), a deceased dependent adult, by and through her Successor in Interest, Ruby Pacheco; and Ruby Pacheco, individually, filed this action against Defendants B.V. General, Inc., and East Los Angeles Healthcare, LLC jointly doing business as Costa Del Sol Healthcare, Healthcare Management Services, LLC, Providence Group, Inc., Azmy Fouad Ghaly, M.D., and Senior Care Clinic. The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff Anna was harmed by Defendants during her residency at Costa Del Sol Healthcare, a nursing facility, which led to her wrongful death. The Complaint alleges the following causes of action:            C/A 1: Non-Covid Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect (First Count)            C/A 2: Non-Covid Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect (Second Count)            C/A 3: Dependent Adult Abuse/Physical Abuse (Non-Covid Related)            C/A 4: Non-Covid Negligence            C/A 5: Dependent Adult Abuse/Financial (Wrongful Advantage)            C/A 6: Violation of Resident’s Rights            C/A 7: Wrongful Death On May 13, 2024, Defendants Costa Del Sol Healthcare, Providence Group, Inc., B.V. General Inc., East Los Angeles Healthcare, LLC and Healthcare Management Services (collectively “Defendants”) filed the Motion to File Confidential Declaration of Stephen L. Smith Under Seal. No opposition was filed. On May 13, 2024, Defendants Costa Del Sol Healthcare, Providence Group, Inc., B.V. General Inc., East Los Angeles Healthcare, LLC and Healthcare Management Services also filed the Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement stating that they reached a settlement with Plaintiffs. No opposition was filed. ANALYSIS A.     Motion to File Confidential Declaration of Stephen L. Smith Under Seal Defendants Costa Del Sol Healthcare, Providence Group, Inc., B.V. General Inc., East Los Angeles Healthcare, LLC and Healthcare Management Services move to file under seal the Declaration of Stephen L. Smith in support of the concurrent Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement.  “Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c).) A party may move to seal records pursuant to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order permitting a record to be filed under seal, the court must find facts that establish:   (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)   Defendants request that the Confidential Declaration of Stephen L. Smith, which has been lodged with the Court consistent with California Rules of Court 2.551(d), be filed under seal and kept confidential. Defendants’ grounds are that Plaintiff and Defendants reached a settlement as the result of out of court negotiations; the settlement agreement contains a confidentiality provision; and the settlement agreement is contingent on a court order finding the settlement was entered in good faith. (Smith Decl. ¶¿3.) A contractual obligation not to disclose the terms of a confidential settlement agreement can constitute an overriding interest to justify sealing under appropriate circumstances. (See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.)  There are sufficient facts to support the declaration’s filing under seal. There is an overriding interest supporting sealing in permitting the parties to proceed to settlement and prevent a breach of the settlement agreement, which is contingent on this Court’s order determining it was made in good faith. If the document is not sealed, the settlement agreement will be breached. No less restrictive means are apparent to achieve the overriding interest.   The unopposed motion is granted.  B.     Motion to Determine Good Faith Settlement California Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .” “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).) Although determination that a settlement was in good faith does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.¿ (Id. at (c).)¿  In City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the Court provided guidance on an unopposed motion for a good faith settlement determination:¿  This court notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted summarily by the trial court. At the time of filing, in many cases the moving party does not know if a contest will develop. If each motion required a full recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response to all of the¿Tech-Bilt¿factors, literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients' resources. It must also be remembered that¿Tech-Bilt¿was decided on a contested basis. We are unaware of any reported decision which has reversed an¿uncontested¿good faith determination and we, therefore, conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the¿Tech-Bilt¿factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.  ((1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)  The instant motion is unopposed. Defendants have provided evidence that Defendants and Plaintiff reached the settlement through out of court negotiations. (Smith Decl. ¶¿3.) Defendants provided a background of the case and the parties’ positions relative to their dispute. (See Motion, pp. 3-4.) All parties to this action have been notified of the subject settlement, including the settlement amount, and counsel for the non-settling defendants have indicated in writing that they do not intend to oppose this motion. (Smith Decl. ¶¿3.) The foregoing is sufficient for an unopposed motion for good faith settlement determination.  The motion is granted.  C.     Conclusion Defendant’s Motion to File Confidential Declaration of Stephen L. Smith Under Seal is GRANTED. Defendant’s Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.