  Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  73 06/11/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Cross-Defendants/moving party:
 Sally Chan (West Themis Law, PC)
Counsel for Cross-Complainant/ opposing
party: T. Randolph Catanese (Catanese and Wells)
 
Demurrer TO CROSS-complaint (filed 04/29/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The demurrer to the Cross-Complaint’s
first, second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)    
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)    
Conversion/embezzlement
3)    
Declaratory relief
4)    
Partition by sale
5)    
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)    
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)    
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)    
Conspiracy
9)    
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The Complaint alleges
the following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. (FAC, ¶¶ 39-41.) 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”), alleging the following causes
of action:
1)    
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)    
Indemnity
3)    
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The
Cross-Complaint alleges that that
any liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due
to the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On November 16, 2023, Defendants filed a Demurrer to
the Cross-Complaint, arguing:
·      
The
Cross-Complaint fails to state sufficient facts as to the first and second
causes of action for indemnity, and the third cause of action for declaratory
relief. The Cross-Complaint is also uncertain. 
 
Cross-Complainants filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The
causes of action are sufficiently pled. 
·      
Cross-Defendants’
request for judicial notice is irrelevant. 
Cross-Defendants did not file a reply.
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at p. 747.) 
 
B.     Request for Judicial Notice
 
Cross-Defendants
request the Court to take judicial notice of the Minute Order issued by Hon.
Judge Stephanie Bowick of Department 19dated June 22, 2023 holding that the
cases the Cross-Complaint and Complaint against Tani in Tani v. Lin et. al,
Case No. 22STCV30356 and Tran v. Tani et. al., Case No. 23STCV08305 are not
related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).
 
The court may
take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court notes that although it may take judicial notice of the
documents, the documents are only judicially noticeable to show their existence
and what orders were made. The facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (See Lockley v.
Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 885.) The Court grants Cross-Defendants request for judicial
notice.
C.     Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here,
counsel for Cross-Defendants submitted a declaration stating that she and Plaintiff’s
counsel exchanged emails regarding the allegations of the Cross-Complaint and
the possibility of filing a demurrer by Cross-Defendants. (Tso Decl., ¶ 2.)  Counsel for Cross-Defendants state
they attempted to schedule a call to discuss the issues, but the parties did
not end up discussing the issues by telephone. (Ibid.) Since the parties did not meet and
confer telephonically or in person, the court does not find the moving party has satisfied the
preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a). However, failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule
or
sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the court continues its analysis of the papers
on the merits. 
 
D.     First and
Second Causes of Action for Equitable Indemnity and Indemnity
 
Cross-Defendants argue that
the Cross-Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute the equitable
indemnity and indemnity causes of action.
“To state a claim for equitable indemnity, a
defendant must allege the same harm for which he may be held liable is properly
attributable—at least in part—to the cross-defendant.”  (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real
Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.)
 
The
Cross-Complaint states: “Cross-Complainants
herein deny any wrongdoing, negligence or other liability in connection with
the matters complained of in the SAC; however, in the event Cross-Complainants
are held liable to Plaintiff TRAN for any amounts set forth in the SAC, such
liability will be the result of and caused by the negligence, carelessness,
acts or omissions or other fault of the Cross-Defendants, and each of them.” (Cross-Complaint,
¶ 21.)
 
Cross-Defendants
argue Plaintiff failed to allege any basis on
which Cross-Defendants are jointly and severally liable with Cross-Complainants
for the damages suffered by Plaintiff. A valid claim of indemnity requires that
there must be a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and resulting
damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is contractually or
equitably responsible. (Bailey v. Safeway, Inc., (2011) 199 Cal. App.
4th 206.)
 
Here, the Court agrees that the Cross-Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts.
Cross-Complainants only generally allege that “all actions” taken by the
Cross-Complainants as alleged in the Second Amended Complaint were consented
to, ratified, and taken with the knowledge and consent of the Cross-Defendants.
However, Cross-Complainants do not specify how and on what basis Cross-Defendants
ratified Cross-Complainants’ conduct.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to the first and second causes of action. 
 
E.     Third Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
An action for declaratory relief
lies when there is an actual bona fide dispute between parties as to a legal
obligation arising under the circumstances specified in CCP §1060 and, in
addition, the controversy must be justiciable - i.e., presents a question as to
which there is more than one answer. (Western Motors Servicing Corp. v. Land
Development & Inv. Co. (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 509.). “Actual
controversy” is a controversy which admits of definitive and conclusive relief
by judgment within the field of judicial administration, as distinguished from
an advisory opinion on a particular or hypothetical state of facts. The
judgment must decree, not suggest, what the parties may or may not do. (Selby
Realty Co. v. San Buenaventura (1973) 10 Cal.3d 110.) A mere difference of
opinion is not an “actual controversy” within §1060. The summary judgment
procedure is appropriate in declaratory relief actions since ‘The propriety of
the application of declaratory relief lies in the trial court's function to
render such a judgment when only legal issues are presented for its
determination.’ (Spencer v. Hibernia Bank, 186 Cal.App.2d 702, 712.)
 
The
Cross-Complaint states: “An actual
controversy has arisen and now exists between Cross-Complainant TANI and
Cross-Defendants concerning their respective rights and duties under the Bylaws
of GOLDEN PARTNER. Plaintiff TRAN has alleged in the SAC that TANI has violated
various provisions of the Bylaws of GOLDEN PARTNER. Cross-Complainant seeks a
declaration that Cross-Complainant TANI has not violated the Bylaws of GOLDEN
PARTNER and that that all acts or omissions by him were ratified and consented
to by the Cross-Defendants in their role as directors, officers and
shareholders of GOLDEN PARTNER.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 29.)
 
However, the
Court finds that the third cause of action is also not sufficiently set forth. As
stated above, Cross-Complainants only provide conclusory statements that
Cross-Defendants ratified Cross-Complainants’ actions. The Cross-Complaint
fails to state any facts showing how such actions were ratified and on what
basis. Thus, the Cross-Complaint does not allege facts that would give rise to
Cross-Defendants’ liability. 
 
Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
III.
DISPOSITION 
The demurrer
to the Cross-Complaint’s first, second and third causes of action is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend. 