  Case Number:  23SMCV04230    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Wasserman v. Di Nalli Construction,
Case no. 23SMCV04230
Hearing date December 4, 2024
Plaintiffs’
Demurrer to General Insurance’s Complaint in Intervention 
Plaintiffs
sued for construction defects. Intervenor General Insurance Company of America seeks
to recover $153,865.07 paid under plaintiffs’ insurance policy. Plaintiffs do
not dispute the amount intervenor seeks, nor do they dispute intervenor’s
entitlement to reimbursement under a first-party insurance claim. 
Plaintiffs
demur, arguing intervenor’s claim is not ripe under the made-whole and
common-fund doctrines. Intervenor filed a late opposition, arguing the
made-whole doctrine does not prevent subrogation and the common-fund doctrine
does not apply. The court will consider the late-filed opposition, which is due
to a calendar error. Decl. Vancho para. 5. As plaintiffs filed a reply, the
late filing did not result in prejudice.
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099. 
Plaintiffs
argue intervenor failed to establish facts sufficient to bring claim in
intervention, arguing the made-whole doctrine states an insurance company may
not enforce a right to subrogation until the insured has been made whole. Plut
v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 98, 104. As applied in
California, the rule precludes an insurer from recovering third-party funds
until the insured has been made whole. Progressive West Ins. Co. v Superior
Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 26.
Intervenor
argues the made-whole doctrine does not prevent intervention, citing Plut,
supra. Intervenor does not address Progressive West, supra,
which holds an insurer generally must wait until plaintiffs have been made
whole. Plaintiffs argue that, had intervenor’s insurance payouts covered the
full extent of their damages, the intervenor’s claims would be ripe. But since
plaintiffs claim damages in excess of the insurance payments, under Progressive
West, supra, the intervenor’s claims are not ripe.
Intervenor
argues the common-fund doctrine does not apply. Intervenor intervened with the
specific intent to assist in obtaining recovery from defendants and incurred
fees and costs. The common-fund doctrine limits an insurer’s reimbursement
based on the insurer’s contributions to plaintiff’s legal fees and costs
following plaintiff’s success in recovering damages. Progressive West, supra.
As intervenor is actively participating in litigation, the common-fund doctrine
is inapplicable. Intervenor requests leave to amend. SUSTAINED with 15 days leave
to amend.