  Case Number:  23STCV12128    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ JUSTIN WEBB, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. JUSTIN CHOI, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV12128 Hearing Date: October 11, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Justin and Amanda Webb (collectively, Plaintiffs”) filed this breach of contract action against defendants Justin Choi and Bradley Blankenship arising from the rental and destruction of a Winnebago. On June 26, 2024, the Court granted the motion to set aside default filed by defendant Justin Choi (“Defendant”) and ordered Defendant to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to Plaintiffs’ counsel. On August 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for attorney fees and costs pursuant to CCP §437(b) following the court having set aside entry of default for Defendant. Defendant’s opposition was due no later than September 30, 2024. The Court will not consider Defendant’s untimely opposition filed and served on October 4, 2024.  II. DISCUSSION On June 26, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to set aside default based on an attorney affidavit of fault. CCP §437(b) provides in pertinent part, “The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” On August 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Substitution of Attorney, substituting Kristin Hobbs, Esq. (“Ms. Hobbs”) of Hobbs Law Group, APC with Jeff W. LeBlanc, Esq. of Anderson & LeBlanc, APLC. The instant motion for attorney fees is related to work provided by Plaintiffs’ now prior counsel, Ms. Hobbs. The Court has reviewed the purported time spent by Ms. Hobbs, who attests to 41 hours worked on motions to strike/opposing the motion to set aside default, entry of default, preparation of the default package, and hearing attendance at a rate of $581.75 per hour. Ms. Hobbs seeks $23,851.00 in legal fees and $976.07 in costs.  It is undisputed that Plaintiffs are entitled to reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs. Even without considering the untimely opposition, Plaintiffs’ request is excessive on its face. The Court finds that Ms. Hobbs has not sufficiently supported her legal rate of $581.75 per hour. A prior determination in another case by another judge is not relevant to this Court, nor is the purported rate of Defendant’s counsel relevant to determine the reasonableness of Ms. Hobbs’ legal rate. In terms of hours spent, there is no basis to compensate Ms. Hobbs for time on the motions not directly related to Defendant’s section 473 motion and the loss of time spent on obtaining default, such as the motions to strike. (Hansen v. Snap-Tite, Inc. (1972) 23 Cal. App. 3d 208, 213 [Under section 473, “the court may ‘impose conditions, such as payments of Costs or Attorney's fees to the adverse party to compensate him for loss or expense which might be suffered by the granting of the motion.’”]. Further, it should not have taken Ms. Hobbs a cumulative 17.5 hours to research and draft an opposition to Defendant’s motion to set aside default. Ms. Hobbs avers she met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel on the amount of attorney fees and costs. According to the last email exchange between the parties, Ms. Hobbs stated to Defendant’s counsel that she had “authority to accept $3,000 as our last offer on the attorney fee motion.” (Hobbs Decl. ¶ 12; Ex. 1.) The Court will hold Plaintiffs to this amount. The Court finds that $3,000 is a fair and reasonable approximation to compensate Plaintiffs for the legal fees and costs suffered by granting the motion to set aside default.  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for attorney fees is GRANTED in part. The Court awards collectively $3,000 in legal fees and costs to Hobbs Law Group, APC.¿  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 10, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 