  Case Number:  23CHCV00792    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-14-24
Case # 23CHCV00792,
KB Salt Lake III, LLC, vs. Fitness International, LLC
Trial Date: 5-5-25
 
DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED ANSWER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
HWP One, LLC and APG De Soto-SPE, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Fitness International, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs are demurring
to Defendant’s second amended answer. Plaintiffs have also moved to strike page
4, lines 15-16 of the second amended answer.
 
RULING: Demurrer
is sustained without leave to amend. The motion to strike is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiffs HWP
One, LLC and APG De Soto-SPE, LLC (Plaintiffs) allege that Defendant Fitness
International, LLC (Defendant) stopped paying rent to hundreds of its landlords
across the country during the COVID-19 pandemic. This case concerns one of
those lessors, KB Salt Lake III, LLC (KB). KB was Plaintiffs’
predecessor-in-interest. Prior cases, which Plaintiffs cite in their request
for judicial notice, have already determined that Defendant breached its lease
with KB. The matters at issue in this case are the calculation of damages and
mitigation. 
 
Despite this,
Defendant is still attempting to assert an affirmative defense based on what
Plaintiffs argue are allegations that are unrelated to the claims at issue in
this case. Defendant’s defense of Offset – Breach of Contract alleges that KB,
Plaintiffs’ successor-in-interest, breached the lease agreement because KB’s
counsel colluded by discussing litigation strategy with counsel for other
landlords that Defendant was litigating against. Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s defense is devoid of factual detail and fails as a matter of law.
 
On August 28,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for judgment on the pleadings for
the prior version of Defendant’s answer. The Court found that Defendant had
failed to allege any conduct that could constitute bad faith or unclean hands,
that Defendant had not alleged that KB or Plaintiffs had alleged any particular
confidentiality obligations in connection with the lease at issue, and that
even if KB or Plaintiffs had breach a confidentiality obligation, it was
immaterial.
 
On September
26, 2024, Defendant served its second amended answer in which it alleges the
breach of contract defense based on the alleged collusion and breach of
confidentiality clause. Defendant points out in its demurrer that this new
defense revives a defense that was the subject of Plaintiffs’ first demurrer to
Defendant’s answer and combines it with the allegations that the Court found to
have failed to constitute a defense in ruling on Plaintiffs’ judgment on the
pleadings. Defendant also alleges that Plaintiffs somehow violated Defendant’s
agreements with other landlords.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s Fifth Affirmative is barred under
the doctrines of res judicata and collateral estoppel because Defendant
previously raised the issue in the underlying UD action. Plaintiffs also argue
that Defendant waived any claim for breach of confidentiality provisions of the
lease by publicly filing the lease. Plaintiffs also argue that Defendant has
failed to establish the necessary elements of offset.
 
Defendant
argues in its opposition that the doctrines of res judicata and collateral
estoppel are not relevant to the Fifth Affirmative Defense. Next, Defendant
argues that it did not waive the defense of offset. Finally, Defendant argues
that it has pleaded facts to support its offset affirmative defense.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that the breach of the lease’s confidentiality clause was
previously raised and decided. Next, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant waived the
confidentiality of the lease. Plaintiffs also argue that Defendant fails to
identify sufficient facts to plead an offset defense. Finally, Plaintiffs argue
that the Fifth Affirmative Defense fails because it is unrelated to Plaintiff’s
breach of lease cause of action.
 
Plaintiffs’ Request
for Judicial Notice: Plaintiffs have requested that the Court take judicial
notice of several court filings in this case and related cases. The Court takes
judicial notice of these documents.
 
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice: Defendant requests that the Court take judicial
notice of court filings in this case. The Court takes judicial notice of these
documents.
 
Plaintiffs’
Supplemental Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiffs request that the Court
take judicial notice of the notice of unlawful detainer in this case. The Court
takes judicial notice of this document.
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 430.20
sets forth the grounds for a demurrer to an answer, which are the following:
the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense, the answer
is uncertain (ambiguous and unintelligible); and/or where the answer pleads a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether the contract is written
or oral.
 
“Unlike the
usual general demurrer to a complaint the inquiry is not into the statement of
a cause of action,” but rather “it is whether the answer raises a defense to
the plaintiff’s stated cause of action.” (Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v.
City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 879- 880.) A demurrer to an
answer “admits all facts well pleaded in the answer, including denials.” (Warren
v. Harootunian (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d 546, 548.) Moreover, “if one of the
defenses or counterclaims is free from the objections urged by demurrer, then a
demurrer to the entire answer must be overruled.” (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 734.) When “the answer sets up a good defense and
denies material allegations of the complaint,” “it is sufficient as against a
general demurrer.” (Barasch v. Epstein (1957) 147 Cal.App.2d 439, 443.)
 
            Fifth Affirmative Defense
Plaintiffs
demur to Defendant’s Fifth Affirmative Defense of Offset – Breach of Contract
on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to
Plaintiff’s complaint. Plaintiffs also argue that the Fifth Affirmative Defense
is barred by the doctrine of res judicata and collateral estoppel.
 
“It is settled
that a final judgment on the merits between the same parties bars a later
action upon the same cause of action. The prior judgment determines not only
every issue raised in that action, but every issue that might have been
raised.” (Carroll v. Puritan Leasing Co. (1978) 77 Cal.App.3d 481, 486.)
A prior judgment may bar affirmative defenses addressing the same issue in a
new action. (See Hamilton v. Carpenter (1940) 15 Cal.2d 130, 133.) 
 
“Under the
doctrine of res judicata, a valid, final judgment on the merits is a bar to a
subsequent action by the parties or their privies on the same cause of action.”
(Shine v. Williams-Sonoma, Inc. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 1070, 1076.)
Collateral estoppel is an aspect of res judicata, which applies not only to
claims which were raised (or could have been raised) in a prior action, but
also matters that were at issue in the prior proceeding. “Collateral estoppel
precludes a party to an action from re-litigating in a second proceeding
matters litigated and determined in a prior proceeding.” (People v. Sims
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 468, 477 [superseded on different grounds by statute].)
“[O]nce an issue is litigated and determined, it is binding in a subsequent
action notwithstanding that a party may have omitted to raise matters for or
against it which if asserted might have produced a different outcome. In the
absence of such a limitation, a party could relitigate an issue simply by
framing a new theory to attack the prior determination.” (Carroll, supra,
77 Cal.App.3d at 490.) 
 
Collateral
estoppel generally has five elements: (1) the issue sought to be precluded is
identical to one in a former proceeding, (2) the issue was actually litigated
in the former proceeding, (3) the issue was necessarily decided in the former
proceeding, (4) the decision in the former proceeding is final and on the
merits, and (5) the party against whom collateral estoppel is asserted was
either a party to or was in privity with a party to the prior proceeding. (See,
e.g. Sims, supra, 32 Cal.3d at 484; Lucido v. Superior Court
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 335, 341.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that Fifth Affirmative Defense is barred by collateral estoppel because
Defendant already used an identical defense in the prior UD action. (See
Plaintiffs’ RJN, Ex. 1 at Sixth and Sixteenth Affirmative Defenses.) This would
satisfy the first element of collateral estoppel. 
 
Next,
Plaintiffs argue that the second and third elements are satisfied because, for
purposes of collateral estoppel, “[a]n issue is actually litigated ‘[w]hen [it]
is properly raised, by the pleadings or otherwise, and is submitted for
determination, and is determined . . . . A determination may be based on a
failure of . . . proof . . . .” (Sims, supra, 32 Cal.3d at 484;
see also Younan v. Caruso (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 401, 407 [“An issue is
actually litigated when it is properly raised by the pleadings or otherwise, is
submitted for determination and is actually determined. A determination may be
based on a failure of proof.”].) An issue is to be “necessarily decided” when
“the issue [must] not have been ‘entirely unnecessary’ to the judgment in the
prior proceeding.” (Lucido, supra, 51 Cal.3d at 342.) The issue
of the alleged breach of contract based on the confidentiality clause was litigated
and decided in the UD action. The trial court in the UD action and the Court of
Appeals decided the issue when they ruled against Defendant in the UD action.
 
Finally,
Plaintiffs argue that there is no dispute that the fourth and fifth elements of
collateral estoppel are met because Defendant was a party to the UD action and
is a party to the present action, and because the UD action was final and on
the merits. “For purposes of collateral estoppel, a judgment free from direct
attack is a final judgment.” (Mueller v. J. C. Penney Co. (1985) 173
Cal.App.3d 713, 719.) The judgment in the UD action was appealed by Defendant
and affirmed by the Court of Appeal.
 
Defendant
argues in its opposition that the issue of the breach of the confidentiality
clause was not decided in the UD action because Defendant abandoned this
defense because it was not a legitimate defense to failure to pay rent. This
argument appears to be a concession on the part of Defendant that the defense
would still not be a legitimate defense. Furthermore, Defendant argues that the
Court in the UD action did not specifically consider or decide whether KB Salt
breached the confidentiality clause, so the issue was not decided. 
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that Defendant abandoning the defense because it was not a
legitimate defense does not preclude application of res judicata and collateral
estoppel. Plaintiffs argue that courts have rejected arguments against
application of res judicata claiming an affirmative defense was “not properly
triable in the unlawful detainer proceeding” where the party participated in
pre-trial discovery and the landlord was willing to have the action tried on
all issues raised by the unlawful detainer defendant. (Wood v. Herson
(1974) 39 Cal.App.3d 737, 745.) Defendant in this case specifically pleaded
breach of the lease’s confidentiality clause as a defense in the UD action,
took pre-trial discovery, including taking depositions. (See Plaintiffs’ RJN, Ex.
3 at ¶ 4 [noting attachment of the deposition transcript of KB’s Person Most
Knowledgeable].) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant never withdrew the defense
because KB submitted argument on the rest of Defendant’s defenses, including the
breach of confidentiality defense, in its Motion for Summary Judgment in the UD
action, noting that Defendant had failed to present any evidence by way of its
discovery responses in support of those defenses. (See Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 2,
p. 24; see also Sims (1982) 32 Cal.3d at 484 [noting that collateral
estoppel applies where an issue is decided based on a failure of proof].)
Furthermore, the minute order granting the motion for summary judgment in the
UD action confirms that Defendant cannot establish the validity of the
remaining defenses, citing Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 573, 593. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 2, attached Ex. 1 at p. 11.) The
appellate decision does not discuss the issue, likely because it was not raised
on appeal by Defendant, but this does not mean that the issue was not litigated
and was final. The summary judgment ruling demonstrates that it was final.
 
Plaintiffs
conclude by arguing that Defendant’s argument against application of res
judicata and collateral estoppel fails because Defendant raised the defense in
the UD action, Defendant took discovery in that action and did not withdraw the
identical affirmative defenses in that action, and Defendant’s affirmative
defenses were submitted for adjudication and were not accepted by the Court in
that action.
 
The Court has
reviewed the documents submitted by the parties and agrees with Plaintiffs’
reasoning. Defendant cannot argue breach of contract based on the
confidentiality clause because that argument previously failed in the UD
action. Furthermore, as Plaintiffs pointed out in their demurrer, Defendant
cannot claim an offset based on a breach of the confidentiality provision
because this Court found in its August 28 order on Plaintiffs’ judgment on the
pleadings that “Defendant also does not allege that KB or Plaintiffs breached
any particular confidentiality obligation in connection with the lease at issue.
It only alleges that Defendant insists on confidentiality provisions. Even if
Plaintiffs or KB breached a confidentiality provision, that would not be a
material breach that would excuse Defendant’s rent obligations.” (August 28,
2024, Minute Order, p. 3.) While Defendant has now alleged a breach of the
confidentiality provision, it would still be immaterial to Defendant’s rent
obligations. Defendant itself admitted in its opposition that the reason that
it abandoned the breach of the confidentiality clause defense in its UD action
was because it was not a legitimate defense to its failure to pay rent.
(Opposition at p. 8.) It is also not a legitimate defense in this action, which
is to calculate damages based on Defendant’s failure to pay rent.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the Fifth Affirmative Defense is sustained without leave to
amend based on the doctrines of collateral estoppel and res judicata. As for
Defendant’s arguments that Defendant waived the confidentiality of the lease
and failed to allege facts sufficient to constitute a defense of offset for
breach of contract, the Court need not reach a determination on those issues
because the Court is granting based on the issue of collateral estoppel and res
judicata. For the failure to allege facts sufficient to constitute a defense of
breach of contract, the Court will note that the alleged breach of the lease
was done by KB’s counsel, and Defendant has failed to allege what information
was disclosed by Plaintiffs or how Defendant was damaged as a result of this
alleged breach of the lease agreement.
 
Motion to
Strike
Plaintiffs have
requested that the Court strike Page 4, lines 15-16 of Defendant’s second
amended answer, which reads “and/or in violation of the leases or other
agreements between Fitness and its other landlords.”
 
Defendant filed
a notice of non-opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion to strike these lines.
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to strike these lines from
Defendant’s second amended answer.
 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to strike is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.