 Case Number:  23CHCV02307    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
11-14-24
Case
#23CHCV02307 , Seyran Avetisyan vs.
Aramark Uniform & Career Apparel, LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 12-1-25
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Aramark Uniform & Career Apparel, LLC 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Seyran Avetisyan
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff’s
Further Responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production, as well as sanctions.
 
RULING: Motion is
granted in part and denied in part.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On August 2, 2023,
Plaintiff Seyran Avetisyan (Plaintiff) filed this employment law action against
Defendant Aramark Uniform & Career Apparel, LLC (Defendant). 
 
Defendant propounded
discovery on Plaintiff, including the relevant requests for production of
documents. Plaintiff was an outside salesperson for Defendant whose job duties
meant that he spent more than half his working time for Defendant away from the
workplace selling Defendant’s products and services. Plaintiff filed this
action against Defendant, claiming that he was misclassified as exempt and
should have been paid overtime and provided with meal and rest periods, and he
alleges that he received inaccurate wage statements and seeks to recover waiting
time penalties for the failure to pay all wages owed upon termination. 
 
This motion
concerns the requests for production that Defendant served on Plaintiff. The
requests at issue are Request Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, 31 and 32. To several of the requests,
Plaintiff responded by saying that the documents were not in his custody and
control, either because he no longer has access to his work phone or because
the documents are in the custody and control of Defendant. Plaintiff did
provide screen captures of two emails and a couple of phone messages that he
claims he saved from a computer that has since broken down. Defendant disputes
the authenticity of the emails and has requested that Plaintiff provide the
metadata for the emails, but Plaintiff claims that he is unable to do so.
 
The requests at
issue concern documents that Plaintiff received during his employment,
including workplace handbooks, emails and messages, etc. These are the
documents that Plaintiff claims are no longer in his possession. Defendant has
also requested that Plaintiff provide documents for his personal phone records
and credit cards. Finally, Defendant has asked for sanctions in the amount of $17,747.50
against Plaintiff.
 
Defendant
indicates that prior to the filing of this motion, the parties met and
conferred several times, and each time Plaintiff indicated that he did not have
access to the requested documents.
 
Plaintiff does not
dispute the relevancy of the requested documents in his opposition. Instead,
Plaintiff argues that he does not have access to the requested work-related
documents or the metadata for the couple of emails that he provided because the
computer that they were on has broken down and that he was only able to save
them by saving copies to a USB drive. He also argues that Defendant could
obtain his personal phone records and credit card statements through subpoenas.
Additionally, Plaintiff claims that he had trouble figuring out what Defendant
meant by metadata because of a language barrier. Finally, Plaintiff argues that
the amount of sanctions requested by Defendant is excessive.
 
Defendant argues
in its reply that Plaintiff must have fabricated the emails or destroyed the
USB and computer that held them. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff is
obligated to collect and produce his cell phone and credit card records and
cannot simply say that Defendant must subpoena them. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff cannot evade discovery based on the unsupported assertion that
documents are “equally available and easily accessible by Aramark.” Next,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s new argument regarding supposed language
issues does not excuse his failure to provide compliant discovery responses.
Finally, Defendant argues that is request for monetary sanctions is reasonable
and well-supported.
 
When a responding
party’s objections and responses to requests for production are “without merit”
and/or “too general,” a party may move to compel further responses for “good
cause.” (CCP § 2031.310) The “good cause” requirement is met by a showing of
relevance. (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2022) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) Relevance in this context is broad. (Id.)
Evidence is “relevant” if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its
case, preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement. (Id.) “Under
the Legislature’s ‘very liberal and flexible standard of relevancy,’ any
‘doubts as to relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting
discovery.’” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 542
(quoting Pac. Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161,
173).) Courts presume all relevant nonprivileged evidence in a party’s
possession is discoverable. (Glenfed Dev. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)
 
As previously
noted, Plaintiff does not dispute the relevance of the requested documents.
Instead, Plaintiff claims that he does not possess the requested documents or
that Defendant should request them from outside sources.
 
For the issue of
the cell phone and credit card records (Request Nos. 13 and 14), a party has a “duty
to take the steps necessary to exercise this control and retrieve the requested
documents.” (Facebook, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 729, 746
(“the obligation to produce materials within a person’s control ‘carries with
it the attendant duty to take the steps necessary to exercise this control and
retrieve the requested documents. ... [A] party’s disinclination to exercise
this control is immaterial, just as it is immaterial whether a party might
prefer not to produce documents in its possession or custody’”).) Even if
Plaintiff did not have a duty to at least attempt to get these records, Plaintiff
has not provided Defendant with his cell phone provider or his credit card
companies. If Plaintiff cannot obtain these documents himself, he must provide
Defendant with the information of the entities that do have this information.
(See CCP § 2031.230 (requires a response to “set forth the name and address of
any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”).) 
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide further responses to Request Nos. 13 and 14, either in the
form of the responsive documents or in the form of the information for the
entities that do have these documents.
 
For Request Nos. 3
(though not listed in Defendant’s notice of motion, it is included in
Defendant’s separate statement) and 4, Plaintiff responds that the responsive
documents are no longer in his possession, either because they were on his work
phone, which is now in the custody of Defendant. To state that he is not in
possession of the responsive documents is a sufficient response. 
 
For Request Nos.
29 and 30, which request emails sent by Plaintiff and the emails’ metadata, Plaintiff’s
supplemental response states that “Without waiver of the previously asserted
objections, after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Plaintiff is unable
to comply with this request because responsive documents are no longer in his
possession, custody, or control.” Plaintiff does not state in his response why
the documents are no longer in his possession, custody, or control. However, in
his opposition, Plaintiff argues, without evidence or any kind of declaration,
that the documents are not in his control because they were on a computer that
has since broken down, and Plaintiff only managed to save a few emails on a USB
drive. Plaintiff also makes an unsupported argument regarding a language
barrier that prevented him from understanding what was meant by metadata.
Plaintiff has not provided sufficient evidence for his failure to respond to
these requests. Plaintiff must provide further responses to these requests.
 
As for the rest of
the requests (Request Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 11, 16-24, 31, and 32), Plaintiff
claims in his opposition that he does not have the documents in his custody or
control. However, this is not clear from several of Plaintiff’s responses,
which he just answers by stating some variant of “Plaintiff will not comply
with this request because any responsive documents are believed to be in the
possession, custody, or control of Defendant. Discovery and investigation are
still ongoing, and Plaintiff reserves the right to respond further at a later
date.” Plaintiff’s responses do not state that they are not in his possession. Stating
that the documents are in Defendant’s custody and control is not sufficient
reason to not produce the documents. If Plaintiff has any of these documents in
his possession, he must produce them. If they are not in Plaintiff’s custody
and control, he must explicitly say so and that he made a reasonable effort to search
for them.
 
Accordingly, the
motion to compel further responses is granted for Request Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, 8,
11, 13, 14, 16-24, 29, 30, 31, and 32. The motion is denied for Request Nos. 3
and 4.
 
            Sanctions
Defendant has
requested sanctions in the amount of $17,747.50 against Plaintiff for attorney
fees and costs related to bringing this motion. Defendant has made this request
pursuant to CCP §§ 2023.010(d) (failure to submit constituted a “misuse[] of
the discovery process”) and 2023.030(a) (a party, its attorney, or both, are
subject to monetary sanctions when they “engag[e] in the misuse of the
discovery process”).
 
The amount of
$17,747.50 that Defendant has requested is based on Defendant’s attorneys
spending 7.5 hours on drafting the motion and related documents at $950.00 per
hour, spending 16.9 hours researching the authority and drafting the documents
at $625.00 per hour, and the $60 filing fee. (Zenewicz Decl., ¶ 13.)
 
Plaintiff argues
in his opposition that this amount is excessive and does not match the definition
of reasonable contemplated by CCP § 2023.030. Upon review the court concludes
that this amount is unreasonable given the nature of the dispute and the time
spent by defense counsel.  Accordingly,
the court concludes that $10,000 is a reasonable award as sanctions.
 
Accordingly, the
Court will award sanctions in the reduced amount of $10,000.00.
 
ORDER
Defendant’s motion
to compel further responses to granted for Request Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 11, 13,
14, 16-24, 29, 30, 31, and 32. The motion is denied for Request Nos. 3 and 4.  Defendant is to provide complete and
code-compliant responses within 30 days.
 
Defendant’s
request for sanctions is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to pay $10,000.00 in
sanctions to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days.
 
Moving party to
give notice.