 Case Number:  BC667432    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  39 Eduvina Martinez,
et al. v. Lotfallah Shokrian, et al.
Case No. BC667432
Motion to Enforce
Settlement
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this habitability action on July 3, 2017, following which the parties
settled the case.  Plaintiffs establish
that Defendants owe them an outstanding balance of $55,000 under the settlement
agreement as well as $11,000 in interest. 
The settlement agreement has a provision under Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6, so the Court has jurisdiction to enforce the settlement
agreement.  
 
            Defendants
do not dispute that they owe $66,000 under the settlement agreement.  Instead, they make a series of procedural
arguments.  First, Defendants argue that
the Court lacks jurisdiction because the parties did not file a stipulation and
proposed order for the Court to retain jurisdiction.  While that is “best practices,” it is not
required under section 664.6 because that section permits the parties to
preserve their rights through “a writing signed by the parties outside the
presence of the court . . . .”  In this
case, the settlement agreement states: “The parties do hereby agree that each
has the right to enforce this Agreement, or any provision thereof, by filing
any appropriate motion or proceeding, including without limitation, a motion
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 664.6 & 664.7, in the appropriate
law and motions department of the Los Angeles Superior Court where the Action
has its venue.  The Parties further agree,
acknowledge and stipulate that the Court in the Action shall retain
jurisdiction over the Parties to determine any motion brough pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure §§ 664.6 & 664.7.” 
This is sufficient.
 
            Defendants
argue that it is unclear against which of them this motion relates.  The motion was noticed against Defendant
Lotfallah Shokrian, Helen Shokrian, and Last Management, LLC.  Those defendants are signatories to the
settlement agreement.  Therefore, the
agreement provides for joint and several liability, and Defendants’ argument
lacks merit.  Finally, Defendants argue
that they cannot afford to pay the remaining settlement amount.  That is not a defense to this motion.   
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is granted. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel seeks an award of attorneys’ fees and costs for
enforcement of the settlement agreement and any judgment.  Plaintiffs did not provide sufficient notice
in the instant motion, so the request is denied at this time.  If there is a contractual or statutory basis
to do so, Plaintiffs’ counsel may file a separate noticed motion for attorneys’
fees and costs that cites the legal authority for the motion, provides notice
of the amount requested, and includes proper support for the request.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiffs’ motion to enforce the
settlement is granted.
 
            2.         Plaintiffs’ counsel may lodge a
proposed judgment if necessary.  
 
            3.         The Court denies Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
request for attorney’s fees and costs without prejudice to filing a noticed
motion if there is a contractual or statutory basis to do so. 
 
            4.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
