 Case Number:  21STCP03332    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  39 Porch.com, Inc.,
et al. v. Kandela, LLC
Case No.
21STCP03332
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Petitioners
Porch.com, Inc. (“Porch”) and Matthew Ehrlichman (collectively, “Petitioners”)
participated in an arbitration of claims with Respondent Kandela, LLC
(“Kandela” or “Respondent”).  Kandela
linked people moving to a new house with utility providers.  Porch provided similar services by linking
new homeowners with various household businesses, like handymen, electricians,
plumbers, etc. Porch identified Kandela as a potential merger partner.  Eventually, Porch acquired Kandela in March
2019.  The parties had issues
transitioning Kandela’s business into Porch, and litigation ensued. Because the
asset purchase agreement contained an arbitration clause, the parties proceeded
to arbitration with JAMS Arbitration. On July 8, 2022, the arbitrator issued an
award in favor of Petitioners in favor of Porch, and against Kandela, in the
total amount of $1,401,814.
 
            Petitioners
filed this action to confirm the arbitration award on on September 28,
2022.  Respondent opposed the motion and
filed its own motion to vacate the arbitration award.  The Court held a hearing on October 10, 2022,
following which it granted Petitioner’s motion and denied Respondent’s motion.  Petitioner also undertook efforts to satisfy
the judgment.
 
            Now,
Petitioner seeks attorney’s fees under the Asset Purchase Agreement
(“APA”).  The arbitrator awarded
attorney’s fees and costs for the underlying arbitration.  Therefore, the Court interprets the motion as
seeking attorney’s fees relating to Petitioner’s efforts to confirm the
arbitration award and satisfy the judgment. 
Petitioner requests $93,8750 in attorney’s fees.  The parties’ agreement states that “Any
dispute, claim or controversy arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement or
the breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity thereof,
including the determination of the scope or applicability of this agreement to
arbitrate, shall be determined by binding arbitration in the city and state of
the responding party before one arbitrator chosen by the responding
party.”  (APA § 9.10(b).)  The agreement also states: “The arbitrator
will award to the prevailing party all costs, fees and expenses related to the
arbitration, including reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, accountants
and other professionals incurred by the prevailing party.”  (APA § 9.10(c).)  This is sufficient to permit Petitioner to
seek attorney’s fees from this Court. 
(See, e.g., Ajida Technologies, Inc. v. Roos Instruments, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 534, 552; California Union Square L.P. v. Saks & Company LLC
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 136, 145.)  
 
            The Court
grants Petitioner’s motion.  The Court
finds that the billing rates are imminently reasonable.  The Court cannot conclude that any of the
requested hours relate to matters concerning the arbitration, as there were
prior proceedings to confirm the arbitration award, as represented by
Petitioner’s counsel.  The Court
considered whether to reduce the hours for any inefficiencies, but the Court
notes that the billing rate is low, at least half of the prevailing market
rates for attorneys like Petitioner’s attorneys.  Finally, the Court notes that Respondent
“created its own problem” by litigating a (meritless) opposition to
Petitioner’s motion to confirm the arbitration award and motion to vacate the
arbitration award and forced Petitioner’s counsel to engage in efforts to
satisfy the judgment.  Therefore, the
Court applies no reduction.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioners’ motion for attorney’s fees
is granted.
 
            2.         The Court orders Respondent to pay
Petitioners, by and through counsel, attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of
$93,875.50 within thirty (30) days, by and through counsel.
 
            3.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 
