 Case Number:  21STCV11027    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  39 Luis Venegas, et
al. v. Browning-Ferris Industries of California, et al.
Case No.
21STCV11027
 
Order #1 of 2
Motion to
Bifurcate
 
Plaintiffs filed this employment
discrimination and sexual harassment case against Browning-Ferris Industries of
California, Inc. (“BFI”) and the supervisor at issue, Peter Pouwels.  Defendants move to bifurcate this case to
order separate trials for each plaintiff. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 598, “The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby . . . make an order . . .
that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 598.) 
Judicial economy would not be served by having separate trials
concerning sexual harassment by the same supervisor.  Defendants argue that there is misjoinder by
all ten plaintiffs filing a single action. 
That is not the case when the plaintiffs all allege that they were
sexually harassed by the same supervisor, Peter Pouwels.  Defendants also argue that a joint trial would
involve irrelevant and prejudicial “me, too” evidence.  This is not the case when the “me, too”
evidence involves the same supervisor. 
Finally, Defendants’ counsel argues that a joint trial would involve at
least 50 witnesses and over 200 hours of testimony, rendering the trial
unmanageable.  If that is the case, the
Court will transfer this case to a long cause courtroom at the appropriate
time.  Separate trials would take even
longer, given the time it would take to select juries and the repetitious testimony.  
 
The Court has considered
Defendants’ remaining arguments and finds none to be persuasive.  Therefore, Defendants’ motion to bifurcate
the trial is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
Order #2 of 2
Order Staying Case
 
            Following
the case management conference, the Court designated this case as a long cause
case, given the number of Plaintiffs and claims, which will require more than
100 hours of testimony at trial.  The
Court ordered the parties to prepare long cause trial binders upon the close of
expert discovery. 
 
            The Court
issued an Order to Show Cause why this case should not be stayed, pending
preparation of long cause trial binders and assignment to a long cause
courtroom.  (See Court’s Minute Order,
dated October 25, 2023.)  No party filed
an opposition to this Order to Show Cause. 
Moreover, the Court finds good cause to stay this case, pending
preparation of the long cause trial binders and assignment to a long cause
courtroom.
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         This case shall be stayed for all
purposes, pending preparation of the long cause trial binders and assignment to
a long cause courtroom.
 
            2.         This stay shall be automatically lifted
once Department One issues an order transferring this case to a long cause
trial courtroom.
 
            3.         Per Code of Civil Procedure section
583.340, the time between November 16, 2023, and the time this case is
transferred to a long cause trial courtroom is excluded from the time within
which this action must be brought to trial, as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.310.
 
            4.         This stay shall not preclude
Plaintiffs’ counsel from filing a notice of settlement.  
 
            5.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 