 Case Number:  23TRCV02524    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    June 13, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02524
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        County of Los
Angeles v. Stadco LC, LLC       
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff, County of Los Angeles 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
Stadco LA, LLC or Hollywood Park Land Company, LLC (No Opposition)
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                            Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED.
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff, County of
Los Angeles (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Stadco LA, LLC,
Hollywood Park Land Company, LLC, and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges
a cause of action for: (1) Premises Liability. 
 
On March 13, 2024, the parties filed a
stipulation to consolidate actions, which was granted that same day. 
 
Now, Plaintiff has filed a Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend and file First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). To date, no
opposition has been filed. 
 
The Court originally heard this motion on
April 30, 202, but on the Court’s own motion, continued the case to June 13,
2024. 
 
On May 1, 2024, County filed the Notice
of Continuance as well as filing a supplemental declaration of Richard M. Stoll
in support of Plaintiff’s Motion. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
            Previously,
this Court noted that Plaintiff had not entirely complied with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, since it did not
include in the March, 2024 Stoll Declaration what allegations are to be added
and where, and explicitly what new evidence was discovered warranting the
amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. 
 
            On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
supplemental declaration of Stoll, which made up for these deficiencies.
Stoll’s supplemental declaration now includes the specifications by reference
to pages. (Stoll Supp. Decl., ¶ 2.) Further, the supplemental declaration
includes reasons for the delay in bringing the amendment. (Stoll Supp. Decl.,
¶¶ 3-7.) As such, this Court notes that with this supplemental declaration, it
may now GRANT the Motion for Leave to File Amended Complaint. 
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice. 
 
 