 Case Number:  23TRCV02570    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    June 13, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV02570
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Kevin
Symons v. General Motors, LLC 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
Kevin Symons 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
General Motors, LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                           Not set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
                                                (3) Request for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is CONTINUED
to July 15, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
                                                (3) Request for
Sanctions is CONTINUED to the same date
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff, Kevin Symons
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors (“GM”) and
DOES 1 through 20. On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Fraud – Concealment; (2)
Business and Professions Code § 17200; (3) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act –
Breach of Express Warranty; (4) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Breach of
Implied Warranty; (5) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act – Civil Code §
1793.2(b). 
 
The moving papers assert that on January 30, 2024,
Plaintiff served GM with Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One.  Plaintiff notes that GM served responses, but
that no documents were produced until February 29, 2024. On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff
states that it sent a meet and confer letter to Defendant to discuss the
failure to produce documents, to which Defendant indicated it needed a
protective order first.  On March 20,
2024, Plaintiff notes that his counsel’s office signed and executed a copy of
the stipulated protective order. 
 
Thereafter, on April 4, 2024, Plaintiff notes that
Defendant served its supplemental production of documents, which Plaintiff
found deficient.  On April 11, 2023,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent defense counsel another meet and confer letter further
highlighting the deficiencies with Defendant’s responses and lack of document
production, and requested responses and complete document production be produced
by April 18, 2024. On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff notes that defense counsel
responded to the meet and confer, noting that Defendant maintained its
objections and responses for most of its requests at issue, and that
Defendant’s document production was missing its consumer complaints, which
Defendant initially agreed to produce. 
 
As such, Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41,
and 43 as well as Requests for Production of Documents Nos. 28-29, 37-64,
67-76, and 80-86 and to produce all corresponding documents. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
            On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed these Motions to Compel
Further Responses. On May 31, 2024, Defendant filed opposition briefs. On May 6,
2024, Plaintiff filed reply briefs. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A party must respond to
interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not provide
timely responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses
to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also
waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or
work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no
time limit for a motion to compel responses to interrogatories other than the
cut-off on hearing discovery motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are
required before filing a motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 41
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.    Discussion 
 
Meet and Confer Efforts 
 
            In both of GM’s
opposition briefs, it argues that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good
faith prior to bringing these motions. GM contends that Plaintiff’s letter
cannot be deemed a genuine effort to meet and confer, because that letter did
not try to resolve any dispute, and instead, simply declared the remaining
requests at issue valid, declared GM’s objections invalid, and demanded that GM
supplement its previous responses, which contained documents relevant to the
pending claim and defenses.         
 
            Moreover, GM
argues that when it responded to Plaintiff’s letter, offering to produce
additional information and participate in an informal discovery conference to
resolve any disputes, Plaintiff agreed to stipulate to GM’s proposed protective
order so that GM could produce materials that Plaintiff claims to need. Nevertheless,
GM argues that when it produced supplemental production, Plaintiff again argued
that this was not enough. 
 
            This Court notes
that at minimum, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One will be continued for reasons discussed below,
and because of this, they will be ordered by this Court to engage in further
meet and confer discussions. 
 
Special Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff seeks
this Court to order further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos.
14, 20, 23, 25, 26, 39, 41, and 43. The Court will discuss each below. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 14, 20, 23: These interrogatories ask GM to identify all
persons who performed warranty repairs upon the subject vehicle, who inspected
or tested the subject vehicle during the relevant period, and who have
knowledge of Plaintiffs’ notices of defect. 
 
To
each of these requests, GM objected generally on the grounds of terms being vague,
ambiguous, and overbroad. However, GM also noted that it referred Plaintiff to
the documents it has produced in responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, particularly, and Service Request Activity Report(s),
the Global Warranty History Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair
orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have
serviced, maintained, or repaired the subject vehicle. GM asserted that these
documents identified the individuals, transactions, including dates and times,
of which GM is familiar regarding the subject vehicle. 
 
            Plaintiff is requesting further
responses to this request on the grounds he argues that a complete response
identifying all of the service technicians is necessary. The Court disagrees,
and notes that referencing Plaintiff to specific documents is a compliant
response.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230.)  The dealer’s employees
are not GM’s employees, and it is equally available from the service history produced
for Plaintiff or for defendant to identify the serving dealer’s employees from those
records.  The motion is DENIED as to this
request. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 25, 26: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all
persons responsible for the customer relations department in the district or
region having jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s complaint during the relevant
period. 
 
            GM objected to this interrogatory on
the grounds the terms “customer relations department” and “jurisdiction” are
vague and ambiguous, and that the interrogatory seeks information which is
irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
information as it is not limited to the subject vehicle or the issue in this
action. While there is some vagueness to these words, GM has failed to make a
good faith response using the general dictionary definitions of those
words.  If there is a head or manager of
GM’s customer service, client assistance, or customer relations staff
responsible for warranty complaints originating after an allegedly failed
dealer repair, or for Lemon Law complaints, in Southern California, that is the
person or persons this SROG seeks to be identified. Because of this, the
Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the motion as to this interrogatory. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 26: This interrogatory seeks GM to identify its present
employee in California who is most knowledgeable regarding GM’s warranty
policies, including but not limited to any policies GM may have had regarding
the replacement or reimbursement of alleged defective automobiles during the relevant
periods. 
 
            GM objected to this interrogatory on
the grounds it argued the term “defective automobiles” is vague, ambiguous, and
overbroad. The Court overrules
the objection.  SROG 26 seeks to identify
a PMK to depose as to GM’s policies for complying with the Song-Beverly Act when
a customer in Southern California seeks a refund or replacement after allegedly
unsuccessful warranty repairs at a GM-authorized dealership.  Furthermore, the interrogatories are not
overbroad, and Defendant fails to show how the interrogatories are so overbroad
as to make responding to the interrogatories unduly burdensome and
oppressive.  (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior
Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417-18.)  The Motion to compel this SROG is GRANTED.
 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 39: This interrogatory seeks GM to identify the
individuals whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that GM is
properly determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Warranty Act. 
 
            GM objected on the grounds it argued
that the interrogatory is overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to discovery of admissible evidence, as it is not
limited to the subject vehicle or the issues in this litigation. The Court
disagrees  and Defendant’s objections are overruled.  This
is relevant to Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant willfully failed to
comply with its repurchase or replacement obligations.  The motion is
GRANTED.
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 41: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all person(s)
involved in GM’s investigation, including any individuals with whom GM
communicated regarding the subject vehicle. 
 
            GM objected on the grounds that this
interrogatory was overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but referred
Plaintiff to the documents it produced in response to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle Limited
Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty History
Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained
from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired
the subject vehicle. 
 
            This finds this to be a largely compliant
response (see Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.230), but that GM needs to identify GM
employees or employee who conducted any investigation into whether Plaintiff’s
request for a refund or replacement should be approved.  When that GM employee is identified and
deposed, she or he can be asked what dealership employees who are identified in
the produced records, if any, the GM employee communicated with.  The Motion as to this SROG is thus GRANTED. 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 43: This interrogatory asks GM to identify all
individuals responsible for GM’s decision whether or not to repurchase or
replace a subject vehicle.
            
            Again, GM objected on the grounds
that this interrogatory was overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, but
referred Plaintiff to the documents it produced in response to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the New Vehicle
Limited Warranty, any Service Request Activity Report(s), the Global Warranty
History Report for the subject vehicle, and any repair orders that GM may have
obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or
repaired the subject vehicle. 
 
            Unless the produced records identify
a GM employee or employees who used the Warranty History Report or Service
Request Activity Reports to make a decision, GM needs to further answer this interrogatory
to identify a decision maker.  The Motion
to compel a further response to this SROG is GRANTED.
  
Requests
for Production of Documents
 
            Plaintiff seeks an order from this
Court compelling GM’s further responses to Requests for Production of Documents
Nos. 28-29, 37-64, 67-76, 80-86, and production of all corresponding documents.

 
Preliminarily, this Court notes that the purpose of
a Separate Statement in a discovery motion is to make it easier, not harder,
for the Court to rule on motions compelling further responses to propounded
discovery categories. Regurgitating arguments, points, authorities, and
citations from a moving or opposing brief in a separate statement violates the
page limitations of briefs supporting or opposing a motion. Further, this Court
notes that the majority of the arguments in the separate statements are virtually
identical. There are forty-seven (47) requests that Plaintiff is seeking
further responses to, and the separate statement is ninety-seven (97) pages
long. The Court has given the parties guidance in its rulings on the SROGs at
issue that may help the parties to narrow the number of RFPs at issue.
 
 The Court
urges the parties to take note of this as the Court will not rule on motions to
compel further responses with excessive separate statements, but instead, will
send the issues back to the party to further meet and confer. This Court will
be continuing the hearing but orders the parties to meet and confer further.
This Court further requires an amended separate statement to be filed. The
amended separate statement should contain only the request, the response, and
any amended or supplemental response, with any legal argument or reasons why a further
response is alleged to be required. The Court also requires a status report on
the requests still at issue in advance of the continued hearing.   The amended and shortened Separate Statement and
the status report are due on or before July 8, 2024. The issue of sanctions
will also be discussed at the continued hearing. 
 
For
purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for both their meet and confer and the
parties’ oral argument, the Court sets forth below some basic parameters for
what it typically orders with respect to certain of the discovery requests
embraced by this motion. The Court typically orders and limits production of
documents including ESI in a Song-Beverly single-vehicle case as follows:
 
1.     Purchase
and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.
2.     Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle
must be produced, including the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates
of activity by dealer personnel.
3.     Communications between the plaintiff and the
warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing dealers, and communications between
Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory representative and/or call center
concerning the subject vehicle.
4.     Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant
concerning the subject vehicle.
5.     The applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual
published by defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within
the State of California, for the year the lawsuit was filed. If a separate
written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or buy backs
appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also be required
to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year Plaintiff
contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction
of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section
1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22). Such documents would be produced subject to a
protective order.
6.     Any internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the
primary or other recurring alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his
vehicle, applicable to the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.
The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the plaintiff as
described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and vague
characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the
litigation. For example, if the customer experienced a black Infotainment screen
when shifting in reverse, or a harsh engagement or clunk of the transmission
when accelerating from 2nd to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other
nature of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the
narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be produced.
7.     Other customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects
claimed by plaintiff, limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same
year, make and model of the subject vehicle. The other customer complaints
again would be limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on
the dealer repair records. The Court typically discusses with counsel the type
of documents that may be required and the format for a production of documents
such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of
voluminous documents.
8.     Technical Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for
vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle, whether mentioned in the repair history of the subject vehicle
or not.
 
The Court urges the parties to take into
consideration the above guidelines, as well as this Court’s ruling as to the
Special Interrogatories in order for the parties to hopefully narrow the issues
presented in these discovery motions. 
 
The hearing is CONTINUED to July 15, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. 
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿ 
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 