  Case Number:  23TRCV01591    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    June 13, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV01591
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Rebecca Alvarez v.
General Motors, LLC, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant, General Motors, LLC
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Rebecca Alvarez
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           May 19, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Demurrer¿ 
                                                (2)
Motion to Strike
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) SUSTAINED
                                                (2) MOOTED
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
On May 18, 2023,
Plaintiff, Rebecca Alvarez (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant,
General Motors, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a Second Amended Compliant (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation
of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b); (3)
Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability – Civil Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5;  and (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
This Court previously, on
December 1, 2023, sustained GM’s previous demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for fraudulent inducement in the FAC.  Plaintiff
amended the allegations of the fifth cause of action in its SAC.  Now, GM files a demurrer and motion to strike
portions of the SAC. 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On February 28, GM filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to both motions. On June 4, 2024,
GM filed reply briefs to both. 
 
 
¿II.
GROUNDS FOR DEMURRER & MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
            Defendant again demurs to Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of
Action arguing it fails to state sufficient facts to establish fraud, fails to
allege a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose, and
because the statute of limitation bars Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action. 
 
            Defendant also filed a Motion to Strike the following
paragraphs from the Prayer for Relief in Plaintiff’s SAC on the grounds they argue Plaintiff has
failed to allege any facts supporting the claims for punitive damages.  (Prayer, ¶ g.)
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Demurrer
 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint
need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary
fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may
lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so
confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿
 
Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment 
Preliminarily, this Court notes that because the same
arguments to the same cause of action were discussed in length in this Court’s
previous minute order on the Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the FAC,
the Court will not be providing as in-depth of an analysis as to the SAC. 
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Previously,
this Court noted that it was not “clearly and affirmatively” apparent from the
FAC that the fraudulent inducement – concealment claim was barred by the
statute of limitation.  Plaintiff’s
allegations under the tolling section have only grown, and thus, the Court will
not hear this issue again. As such, the Court finds that as for the SAC,
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts as to tolling.   
 
Specificity
Requirement 
 
            Also, this
Court previously found that the allegations alleged in Plaintiff’s FAC were
exceptionally detailed. This Court further noted that although the FAC failed
to allege the names of the persons who concealed facts or who knew of a
transmission flaw, details of that nature are required in affirmative
misrepresentation cases, not concealment cases. As such, this Court again finds
that the specificity of Plaintiff’s SAC meets the requisite specificity pleading
standard for fraudulent concealment.
 
            However, the
duty issue is once again the focus of concern. 
For proper allegation of a fraudulent concealment claim, a duty to
disclose material facts may arise (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant has exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. (Falk v.
General Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1098-1099 citing LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326.) The Opposition alleges that the SAC
contains allegations supporting that the transmission defect was: (1) a
material fact; (2) that it poses safety risks; and (3) that it arose during the
warranty period.

 
Transactional
Relationship
 
GM also again
argues that Plaintiff’s fraud claim fails because Plaintiff does not allege a
transactional relationship between GM and Plaintiff, or other circumstances
giving rise to a duty to disclose. Again, Plaintiff does not allege a
transactional relationship existed between the parties, but instead, relies on
the same argument as she did in the previous opposition brief, that a
transactional relationship is not required under Dhital. Instead,
Plaintiff contends that a transactional relationship is not required for GM to
have a duty to disclose. The Court does note that the SAC does allege that from
September 2014 to at least February 2019, Defendant issued many TSBs and
service bulletin updates to its dealers in the United States, but not to its
customers, acknowledging problems of harsh shifting, jerking, clunking, and
delays in acceleration or deceleration releasing to the 8-speed transmission,
just as she did in the FAC. 
 
Plaintiff again
relies on the argument that the transmission defect is a material fact, poses a
safety risks, and that the transmission defect arose during the warranty
period.  The other requirements besides
transactional relationship are exclusive knowledge, active concealment, or
partial representation but suppression of a material fact. The SAC, like the
FAC before it, does not allege exclusive knowledge, but it does allege that GM
was in a superior position from various internal sources to know (or should
have known) the true state of facts about the material defects contained in
vehicles equipped with the 8-speed transmission. (SAC, ¶78(b).) The SAC also
alleges that GM’s concealment of this safety defect was material and Plaintiff
relied on Defendant GM’s advertising materials which did not disclose the
defect. (SAC, ¶ 75.) The FAC also contends that GM knowingly and intentionally
concealed material facts and breached its duty not to do so. (SAC, ¶ 79.)
Plaintiff argues that these facts are material in that a reasonable person
would have considered them to be important in deciding whether or not to
purchase the Vehicle. (SAC, ¶ 80.)
 
Until 2022,
when Dhital was decided, the California Supreme Court and the state
Courts of Appeal had not published any decisions on the economic loss doctrine
in a SBA case, but a number of federal district court decisions have.  Further, the California Supreme Court has
granted review of the decision in Dhital, suggesting that the SCOC will not be
completely affirming that decision.  A
recent Central District of California decision cast doubt on the vitality of Dhital’s
determination that the allegations in that case were sufficient to state a
cause of action.  The court in Antonov
v. General Motors LLC (C.D. Cal., Jan. 19, 2024, No. 823CV01593FWSMJR) 2024
WL 217825, at *11 noted that “in Dhital the California Court of Appeal
conducted limited substantive analysis of the plaintiffs' transactional
relationship allegations due to the defendant's failure to fully brief the
argument.”   Antonov found Dhital's
“cursory analysis” of the direct transactional relationship issue was
unconvincing, given the Second District’s failure to even cite to Bigler-Engler
or other California precedent governing transactional relationships, and given
the Second District’s failure to address the numerous cases holding that automobile
dealerships are not the agents of manufacturers.  (Id; Condrashoff v. General Motors LLC
(E.D. Cal., May 23, 2024, No. 2:24-CV-00108-DAD-DB) 2024 WL 2399645, at *5; Kuehl
v. General Motors LLC (C.D. Cal., Nov. 17, 2023, No. 2:23-CV-06980-SB-SK)
2023 WL 8353784, at *3.)  
 
This Court finds
the Antonov decision more persuasive than Dhital.  This Court finds that the fact that a
manufacturer publicly makes available a host of TSBs bearing on an allegedly concealed
defect – through its mandated sharing of TSBs with the NHTSA and the NHTSA’s
posting of all TSBs on its website – defeats an allegation that the same
manufacturer concealed the existence of such defects n prior or current models
of its vehicle.  As a matter of public
policy, best decided by the Legislature rather than the courts, a manufacturer
as a matter of law cannot be liable for fraud due to facts it is alleged to have
concealed when the same pleading alleges that it publicized those facts.  A manufacturer should not be subject to
punitive damages claims merely because it has received customer complaints
about abrupt, harsh, flaired, or delayed transmission shifts but does not disclose
those prior customer complaints at the point of sale, in the absence of
allegations of bodily injury or property damage caused by such allegedly
defective transmission functions.
 
Plaintiff
has not alleged or argued any new grounds for asserting a general duty by a
motor vehicle manufacturer to disclose to a consumer that it has had warranty
complaints or reports of malfunctions or that a component or system in a prior
version of a transmission has been the subject of repair recommendations or procedures.
Previously, the Court was not persuaded by Plaintiff’s arguments of such as the
creation of such a duty seems better left to the policy-making branches of
government rather than the judiciary. Such a duty seems to implicate balancing
the burden that would be placed on manufacturers of such a broad duty against
the perceived value that disclosures of such a wide array of information might
yield for consumers. The law already recognizes a duty to recall or retrofit
(see, e.g., Hernandez v. Badger Construction Equipment Co. (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1791, 1827; Lunghi v. Clark Equipment Co. (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 485, 494), but such a cause of action requires harm in the form of
personal injury rather than the economic losses alleged in the FAC here. (The
Court is mindful that a claim for fraudulent inducement by concealment is not
subject to demurrer on the ground it is barred by the economic loss rule,
pending a decision by the California Supreme Court on certified question from
the Ninth Circuit and on petition for review of Dhital.
 
The
Demurrer is thus sustained, without leave to amend.
 
B.    Motion
to Strike 
¿ 
GM bases its Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
Punitive Damages on the argument that Plaintiff has not pleaded the fraud cause
of action with the specificity required. As for the fraud claim, the Court
notes that the argument for punitive damages as to fraud are predicated on the same
arguments made in the demurrer and will be determined in oral argument.
However, the Court’s tentative ruling is to sustain demurrer as to the
fraudulent inducement – concealment cause of action.   As such
the Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, GM’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Additionally, the Motion to
Strike is mooted. GM is ordered to give notice. 
¿¿¿ 
¿¿