Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCP01705
Plaintiff's Name: Tohid Naeem
Defendant's Name: Nidal A. Barakat
People Names: Tohid Naeem, Nidal A. Barakat
Company Names: None
Places: Los Angeles, California, Van Nuys
Dates: May 18, 2023, July 31, 2023, January 12, 2024, January 31, 2024, February 7, 2024, March 19, 2024, April 30, 2024
Events: Filing of Complaint, Answer, Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint, Proof of Service
Money: None
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to file a Second Amended Complaint
Facts: Plaintiff filed the operative Complaint, Defendant filed an Answer, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint
Disputes: None
Acts: Filing of pleadings, proof of service
Agreements: None
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, Code of Civil Procedure Section 576, California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324
Case Citations: Berman v. Bromberg, Morgan v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County, Higgins v. Del Faro, Fenn v. Sherriff
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, California Rules of Court
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: Code of Civil Procedure Section 473 permits the trial court in its discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice; due process requires a party to be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has considered the motion for leave to file a second amended complaint filed by plaintiff Tohid Naeem. The motion was filed on January 12, 2024, and no opposition was filed. The judge previously continued the matter to allow plaintiff to serve defendant Nidal A. Barakat with the motion and to give defendant the opportunity to respond. However, on February 7, 2024, plaintiff filed a new motion and proof of service indicating that defendant was served with the motion and supporting documents. However, the judge notes that the address on record for defendant is different from the address where the documents were served.

The judge is permitting the motion to amend the complaint to proceed, but is continuing it to April 30, 2024, to allow plaintiff to serve defendant at the correct address and to give defendant the opportunity to respond. Plaintiff is ordered to serve the documents within five court days of the issuance of this order. The judge is also ordering that the moving party give notice of this ruling.

The judge is allowing the motion to amend the complaint to proceed because it is in the furtherance of justice and will not prejudice the opposing party. The judge notes that there is a strong policy of liberality in permitting amendments to pleadings at any stage of the proceeding, and that an application to amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge's sound discretion.