 Case Number:  23STCV08063    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HICKS MEDIA,
  INC. a Texas Corporation, as successor to M&M MOMAR, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BIG TICKET PRODUCTIONS, INC.; PARAMOUNT
  PICTURES CORPORATION; CBS STUDIOS f/k/a CBS TELEVISION STUDIOS, a subsidiary
  of CBS ENTERTAINMENT GROUP, a division of VIACOMBCBS INC.; and DOES 1-50,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV08063
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION
  TO STRIKE 
 
Date: March 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants Big Ticket Productions, Inc., et
al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Hicks Media, Inc.
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff Hicks Media,
Inc., as successor to M&M Momar, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Big Ticket Productions,
Inc., Paramount Pictures Corporation, CBS Studios f/k/a CBS Television Studios,
a subsidiary of CBS Entertainment Group, a division of ViacomCBS Inc., and DOES
1-50, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Intentional Interference With
Contract; and (4) Accounting. 
 
            On February 2, 2024, Defendants
filed this instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike. On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its opposition. On March 12, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The Court finds that the parties sufficiently
engaged in the meet and confer process. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “The primary function of a pleading
is to give the other party notice so that it may prepare its case [citation],
and a defect in a pleading that otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be
said to affect substantial rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica
(2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)¿¿ 
 
“A¿demurrer¿tests
the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a complaint.” (Ivanoff
v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 725.) The Court looks to
whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action or
discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The Court does not “read passages
from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a ruling on a demurrer, we read the
complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their context.’ [Citation.]” (West v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 804.) The Court
“assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations, facts that
reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded and matters of which
judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra, 56 Cal.4th p.
240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of contentions, deductions
or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿ 
 
            A general demurrer may be brought
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient
facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted or under section
430.10, subdivision (a), where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. All other grounds listed in
Section 430.10, including uncertainty under subdivision (f), are special
demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
 
            Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿
 
Demurrer to FAC
            Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s FAC on the ground that the second and third causes of action do not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            The Second Cause of Action for
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            “The [implied] covenant of good
faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract. The covenant is
read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to the express
contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct
which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates
the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’” (Thrifty
Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,
1244.) As such, “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of
the contract.” (Id.) 
            
“Establishing
that claim requires a showing of “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790,
800.) 
 
            Defendants argue this claim mirrors
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for breach of contract and does not state a
viable independent duty that any of the Defendants violated.  Specifically, Defendants contend Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim against Defendants BTP, Paramount and CBS is premised
on the general allegation that Defendants have breached the agreements by
failing to pay monies due to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 27.) Similarly, Defendants
contend Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing by “unfairly interfering with the Plaintiff’s right to
receive the benefits of their respective agreements” by failing to correctly
credit/allocate certain revenues, and failing to accurately
calculate/substantiate costs and expenses. (Id. at ¶ 33.) As such,
Defendants argue both the breach of contract and implied covenant causes of
action come down to whether Defendants made all payments required under the
terms of the M&M Agreement(s). 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
ultimate facts which must be pled are set forth in jury instructions, so it is
not required to plead every evidentiary fact it seeks to introduce at trial.
Furthermore, Plaintiff argues it has put Defendants on fair notice of its
claims. Plaintiff also contends it has pled sufficient facts to allege
Defendant breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because
it pled (1) the parties entered into a contract; (2) Plaintiff performed all
conditions, covenants, and promises required to be performed by the contract in
accordance with the terms of its agreement; (3) Defendants prevented Plaintiff
from receiving the benefits of the contract by committing significant financial
malfeasance; and (4) Plaintiff was harmed by the conduct. In addition,
Plaintiff contends the acts included in this claim are distinctly different
than those that would be included under a simple breach of contract cause of
action because (1) the allegation that the manipulation of the financials
caused a decrease in the revenue Plaintiff was entitled to is not reflected
within a simple breach of contract claim and (2) Plaintiff alleges Defendants
improperly categorized costs, expenses, depreciation, etc., which negatively
affected Plaintiff’s revenue. 
 
            In reply, Defendants argue Plaintiff
understates the required pleading requirements. Defendants reiterate that an
implied covenant claim which relies on the same alleged acts and seeks the same
relief as a companion contract claim “may be disregarded as superfluous” unless
there is a basis for tort recovery. Furthermore, Defendants assert that
Plaintiff makes no attempt to address Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher
Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 102, which confirmed that outside of the
insurance context, and absent violation of an independent duty that arises from
tort law principles, breaches of contract, even intentional or wrongful, do not
give rise to tort damages. Additionally, Defendants contend that nowhere in the
implied covenant cause of action is there an alleged breach identified that is
unique from the alleged breaches also included in the breach of contract cause
of action. As such, Defendants argue that Plaintiff attempts to turn a breach
of contract action into a tort case. 
 
            The FAC incorporates by reference
and realleges each and every allegation in Paragraphs 1 through 28 including
the allegations set forth in the First Cause of Action for Breach of Written
Contract. (FAC, ¶ 29.) The FAC alleges that every contract in California
contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that neither party
will do anything which will injure the right of the other to receive the
benefits of the agreement. (Id. at ¶ 30.) The FAC further alleges the
implied covenant finds particular application in situations where one party is
invested with discretionary power affecting the rights of another. (Id.)
The FAC further alleges that in distributing the Series, Defendants had discretionary
power to incur, categorize, valuate, and structure its exploitation strategy,
from costs and expenses incurred to the licensing deals it reached with
third-party exhibitors and broadcasters. (Id. at ¶ 31.) The FAC also
alleges that the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing imposed a duty
on Defendants to exercise the foregoing discretion fairly and accurately under
the parties’ agreements and Defendants breached that duty by unfairly
interfering with Plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of their respective
agreements. (Id. at ¶¶ 32-33.) Specifically, the FAC alleges Defendants
(a) failed to credit significant revenues, as well as improperly deducting
costs and expenses, when calculating the Series’ profits, to Plaintiff’s
detriment; (b) failed to properly allocate revenues earned from agreements in
which the Series was licensed in packages with other properties, to Plaintiff’s
detriment; (c) failed
to accurately calculate costs, expenses, and revenues streams, variously
underreporting or overinflating same to Plaintiff’s detriment; (d) failed to
substantiate the incurrence of costs and expenses to Plaintiff’s detriment; and
(e) failed to engage in arms-length transactions or otherwise avoid
self-dealing when contracting with vertically-integrated or otherwise-related
entities. (Id. at ¶ 33.) The FAC alleges Plaintiff suffered monetary
damages as a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ breaches of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (Id. at ¶ 34.)
 
            In Careau & Co. v. Security
Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395, the court
held that allegations asserting a claim for implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing “must show that the conduct of the defendant, whether or not it
also constitutes a breach of a consensual contract term, demonstrates a failure
or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted not by an honest
mistake, bad judgment or negligence but rather by a conscious and deliberate
act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes and disappoints the
reasonable expectations of the other party thereby depriving that party of the
benefits of the agreement.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) 
 
However,
“[i]f the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach
and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other
relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be
disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Id.)
“[A]bsent those limited cases where a breach of a consensual contract term is
not claimed or alleged, the only justification for asserting a separate cause
of action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id.)
 
            The Court finds that the FAC does
not allege sufficient facts to support a cause of action for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff merely alleges facts that
demonstrate a breach of contract. Furthermore, Plaintiff relies on the same
facts alleged in the First Cause of Action for Breach of Written Contract.  As such, this claim is duplicative of the
first cause of action and does not plead facts sufficient to justify a recovery
in tort. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer as to the
second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend, as Plaintiff has not
demonstrated that this claim can be alleged in a way that constitutes a valid
cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
 
            


 
Third Cause of
Action for Intentional Interference With Contract    
“In
order to state a cause of action for intentional interference with contract, a
plaintiff must show: “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party;
(2) defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.” (Winchester Mystery House, LLC v. Global Asylum, Inc. (2012)
210 Cal.App.4th 579, 596.)
 
Defendants
argue that this claim fails because it is based on boilerplate, conclusory
allegations and assumptions. Defendants further argue that Plaintiff pleads
interference with a contract to which CBS is alleged to be a party.
Specifically, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has attempted to plead an
interference claim based not on actual knowledge, nor even on “information and
belief,” but simply reciting elements of the cause of action rather than pleading
any facts that would, if true, support a finding that elements of the claim were
satisfied. (FAC, ¶¶ 36-40.) Moreover, Defendants contend that CBS is not a
stranger to the agreement(s) that is/are the subject of the claim because
Plaintiff alleges that CBS is a party to the M&M Agreement(s), an agent of
contracting parties BTP and/or Paramount, and purportedly conspired with
vertically-integrated or otherwise-related entities to under-account to
Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 13.) Thus, Defendants argue those allegations cannot serve
as a basis for a tortious interference with contract claim because CBS supposed
wrongful conduct was alleged to have been performed on behalf of BTP and/or
Paramount and for their and other related entities’ benefit. Likewise,
Defendants argue CBS cannot be held liable for interfering with its alleged
principals’ contract(s). 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
it has pled sufficient facts to allege the third cause of action for tortious
interference with a contract. Specifically, Plaintiff contends it alleges that
Defendant CBS is a licensee and not an assignee or an agent to Defendant BTP.
(FAC, ¶¶ 36-40.) Plaintiff further contends agency immunity does not apply to
shield persons who merely have an “economic interest” in another party’s
contract relations such as CBS in this allegation. Plaintiff also contends the
third cause of action was pled in the alternative, so Defendant CBS is not a
party to the contract nor an agent to any of the other Defendants. Moreover,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant CBS has knowledge of the contract and actions
alleged in the FAC caused a breach of contract and damages to Plaintiff. 
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that California
law is clear that for a party to tortiously interfere with a contract, that
party must be a stranger to the contract, whereas Plaintiff has alleged the
exact opposite, i.e., that it has a contractual relationship with all three of
the Defendants including CBS. (FAC, ¶ 7.) Defendant further reiterates that an
agent or representative of a contracting party cannot be held personally liable
for interfering with its principal’s contract and Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants, including CBS, are agents of the other remaining Defendants.
Moreover, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cites to no legal authority making a
licensee any more subject to a tortious interference claim than an agent.
Defendants also argue that a mere economic interest in a contract is not
alleged in the FAC because Plaintiff alleges CBS wrongfully failed to do more
to maximize Plaintiff’s rights under the M&M Agreement, thus plainly
contemplates performance by CBS related to that Agreement. In addition,
Defendants contend that Plaintiff makes no effort to clarify how CBS’s conduct
allegedly induced BTP or Paramount to breach the M&M Agreement or disrupted
their performance under that Agreement. 
 
            The FAC incorporates by reference
and realleges each and every allegations in Paragraphs 1 through 34. (FAC, ¶
35.) The FAC alleges Plaintiff pleads this cause of action in the alternative
based on the fact that Plaintiff has not seen numerous underlying contracts for
the Series and it is currently unknown whether Defendants CBS and DOEs 26-50
are acting as licensees or assignees of the contractual rights created by the
agreements between Plaintiff and Defendant BTP. (Id. at ¶ 36.) The FAC
further alleges that Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50 are licensees for the
purpose of this cause of action alone. (Id.) The FAC further alleges that,
assuming arguendo that Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50 are licensees and
through the conduct described in aforementioned paragraphs, they: (1) intended
to disrupt or prevent the performance by BTP and/or Paramount of the M&M
Agreement(s) as set forth above and did disrupt or prevent that performance;
(2) caused
damage to Plaintiff by collaborating and/or participating in acts that reduced
the Series’ AGR and ultimately Plaintiff’s contingent compensation in
connection with the Series; (3) were a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s harm; and (3) were engaged with a deliberate, cold, callous,
fraudulent, and intentional manner in order to injure and damage Plaintiff
and/or with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. (Id. at ¶¶
37-40.)
 
            In Mendoza v. Continental Sales
Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, the court held that “[w]hen a pleader is
in doubt about what actually occurred or what can be established by the
evidence, the modern practice allows that party to plead in the alternative and
make inconsistent allegations.” (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402.) 
 
            Similarly, in PMC, Inc. v. Saban
Entertainment, Inc. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 579, the court held that a
manufacturer could not state a claim for interference with a contract against a
licensee absent an enforceable contract with the owner. 
 
            The Court finds that the FAC does
allege sufficient facts to support a cause of action for intentional interference
with contract. Although Plaintiff alleges in previous paragraphs that CBS is a
party or an agent of a party to the subject agreements, the law allows
Plaintiff to plead in the alternative and to make inconsistent allegations.
Plaintiff alleges in the alternative that it is currently unknown whether
Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50 are licensees or assignees to numerous underlying
contracts in this case. Plaintiff further alleges that there were enforceable
contracts with Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50’s principals and Plaintiff.
Lastly, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50 were aware of
those contracts, intended to breach or disrupt the contractual relationship;
did breach or disrupt the contractual relationship, and caused Plaintiff
damages as a result of their conduct. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrer as to the
third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
            “Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  
 
            “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
 
            Defendants move to strike Paragraph
40 and the Prayer for Relief, in whole or in part, from the FAC on the ground
that the request for punitive damages is insufficient as a matter of law.
Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not adequately allege facts to support
that Defendant CBS acted with fraud, oppression, malice, or willful conduct.
Furthermore, Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not include sufficient
allegations to seek punitive damages against a corporate entity. Specifically,
Defendants contend  Plaintiff does not
identify a single officer, director, or managing agent or even an employee of
CBS or any other Defendant entity at all, who acted, much less attribute
wrongful conduct and intent to any specific individuals. Instead, Defendants
assert the FAC merely alleges that an unidentified managing agent, officer, or
director engaged in bad acts alleged, which is insufficient. (FAC, ¶ 40.)
Moreover, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to allege that anyone acted
maliciously, oppressively or fraudulently towards Plaintiff. Rather, Defendants
contend Plaintiff’s allegations in the FAC are focused on what CBS supposedly
did towards the writers and creators of the Series and that the writers and
creators participated in the audit. (FAC, ¶ 20.) As such, Defendants argue that
allegations of withholding documents to an auditor that did not represent
Plaintiff cannot serve as the basis of any claim by Plaintiff. Finally,
Defendants assert that allegations based on Plaintiff’s assumptions are
irrelevant and improper because Plaintiff’s requests for damages are directly
tied to allegations where the facts are currently unknown and prefaced with “assuming
arguendo.” (FAC, ¶¶ 36-40.)
 
            To state a claim for punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that the¿defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient. Id. A motion to strike may
lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the
defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)¿ 
 
“Malice”
is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847,
891.)¿¿“Fraud” is defined in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿ 
 
            To prove that a defendant acted with
“willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not
enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and
reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90).
Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude
that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or
contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 704, 725.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants overstate the standards required merely to plead a claim for
punitive damages because there is no requirement to “prove evidence” at the
pleading stage, so there is no heightened pleading standard. Plaintiff further
argues that the punitive damages standard was sufficiently pled in its third
cause of action. As such, Plaintiff contends it alleged that Defendant CBS’s
managing agent, officers, or directors were engaged in deliberate, cold,
callous, fraudulent, and intentional manners in order to injure and damage
Plaintiff and/or with conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. (FAC, ¶ 40.)
Plaintiff also contend it alleges these actions were ratified and/or affirmed
by Defendant CBS’s managing agent, officers, or directors. (Id.)
Moreover, Plaintiff argues that it alleged that Defendant CBS has a history
and/or business practice of interfering with contacts with talents ability to
receive their royalties. (Id. at ¶ 41.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues that
the claim that it was required to provide specific names of officers,
directors, or managing agents is not supported by case law or statute, only to
place Defendants on notice of the intent to seek punitive damages. Plaintiff
further contend that pleading of the statutory language does not mean that the
FAC pleads mere conclusions, and the pleading states actual facts supporting
the prayer for punitive damages. (FAC, ¶ 21 (b).) Lastly, Plaintiff contends
that it has sufficiently pled its third cause of action, so the punitive
damages claim must survive. 
 
            In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
misstates the California pleading standard for punitive damages. Defendants
reiterate that California courts have repeatedly and unequivocally held that to
maintain a punitive damages prayer against a corporate entity, the plaintiff
must include specific allegations about a specific managing agent, officer or
director engaging in or ratifying acts rising to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud. Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not done so.
Furthermore, Defendants reiterate that Plaintiff’s allegations are focused on
what CBS supposedly did to others. Lastly, Defendants reiterates that the
request for punitive damages is based solely on the third cause of action,
which Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled. 

 
In
Grieves v. Superior Court  (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 167, the court held “Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b)
sets forth the circumstances under which an employer may be held liable
for punitive damages based upon acts of an employee. They include the
employer's (1) advance knowledge of the employee's unfitness; (2) authorization
or ratification of the wrongful conduct; and (3) personal culpability.
Moreover, a corporate employer may be liable only if the knowledge,
authorization, ratification or act was on the part of an officer, director or
managing agent of the corporation.” (Grieves v. Superior Court  (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 167.)
The
FAC alleges at Paragraph 40: “Assuming arguendo that Defendants CBS and DOES
26-50 are licensees (and not assignees) and in engaging in the misconduct
alleged herein, Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50 including by and through their
managing agents, officers, or directors were engaged with a deliberate, cold,
callous, fraudulent, and intentional manner in order to injure and damage
Plaintiff and/or with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights. These
actions were either made and/or affirmed and/or ratified by Defendants CBS and
DOES 26-50's managing agents, officers, or directors. Such acts were with
malice, oppression, and/or fraud, and in willful disregard of Plaintiff’s
rights and interests, thus entitling Plaintiff to an award of punitive damages
in an amount appropriate to punish or make an example of Defendants CBS and
DOES 26-50, pursuant to Civil Code § 3294.”
 
            The Court finds that the FAC does
sufficiently plead facts to support the request for punitive damages. Taking
the FAC as whole, Plaintiff alleges Defendants CBS and DOES 26-50 including by
and through their managing agents, officers, or directors engaged in financial
malfeasance as set forth in Paragraph 21 of the FAC, which describes
intentional misconduct. Furthermore, the Plaintiff alleges Defendants CBS and
DOES 26-50 ratified and/or affirmed this conduct by their managing agents,
officers, or directors. A reasonable jury could find that Defendants alleged
actions that were done with the willful disregard as to Plaintiff’s contractual
rights.
 
            Therefore, the Motion to Strike is DENIED.

 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



