 Case Number:  22STCV03944    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YOGI SECURITIES
  HOLDINGS, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
JONA RECHNITZ, ROBERT RECHNITZ, JSR
  CAPITAL, LLC, ALAN “AVI” GOLOMBECK, AGOL HOLDINGS, LLC, AYAL FRIST, STATELAND
  BROWN, LLC, and DOES 1-100, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV03944
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Date: March 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
JSR Capital, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Yogi Securities Holdings, LLC
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff Yogi Securities
Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this operative Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) against Defendants Jona
Rechnitz, Robert Rechnitz, JSR Capital, LLC, Alan “Avi” Golombeck, Agol
Holdings, LLC, Ayal Frist, Stateland Brown, LLC, and DOES 1-100 for (1) Breach
of Contract – Count 1; (2) Breach of Contract – Count 2; (3) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (4) Breach of Guaranty; (5) Conversion; (6) Negligence
Misrepresentation; (7) Fraud and Concealment; and (8) Civil Theft (Cal.
Penal Code, § 496). 
 
            On  October 16, 2023, Defendant JSR Capital, LLC
(“JSR”) filed this instant Motion for Protective Order. On February 16, 2024,
Plaintiff filed its opposition. On March 11, 2024, JSR filed its reply.              
 
DISCUSSION
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure Section 2017.020, subdivision (a), “The court shall
limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or
intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the
information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court
may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a
party or other affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd.
(a).)
 
 “Notwithstanding subdivision (a), on motion
and for good cause shown, the court may establish the sequence and timing of
discovery for the convenience of parties and witnesses and in the interests of
justice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.020, subd. (b).)
 
Motion for Protective Order
            JSR moves for a protective order
extending the response time for JSR to respond to Plaintiff’s first set of
document demands (“the Discovery”) comprising 48 document demands for at least
60 days; and attorney’s fees and costs against Plaintiff and its counsel,
Ronald Richards and Geoffrey Long in the sum of $5,312.00. JSR argues good
cause exists because (1) recent past and upcoming health issues of JSR’s
counsel, Robert Hirsh (“Hirsh”); (2) JSR being unavailable to respond to the
Discovery due to the timing of its service within the Jewish holidays; and (3)
Hirsh has offered to continue trial so that no prejudice is suffered by anyone,
but Plaintiff has refused. 
 
            Specifically, JSR contends
Plaintiff’s counsel have been repeatedly informed of JSR’s managing member,
Jona Rechnitz’s religious observance of Jewish holidays. JSR further contends
the Discovery was served on September 19, 2023, within the Jewish holiday
period that started on Rosh Hashanah and ended with Simchas Torah, Sunday night
October 8, 2023. JSR asserts due to Rechnitz’s religious observance, he did not
work the entire holiday period. Moreover, JSR asserts Plaintiff’s counsel have
repeatedly been informed about Hirsh’s very serious health issues, which nearly
resulted in his death in September 2023 and Hirsh’s October 27, 2023 surgery,
with an estimated four week recovery period. JSR also argues Plaintiff still
refused to provide JSR with a  requested
60-day extension to respond to Plaintiff’s first set of document demands. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues the
motion is moot as to the request for a 60-day extension of time, to December
22, 2023, to respond to the Discovery because JSR has had 164 days to respond
but still has failed to do so. As such, Plaintiff contends JSR effectively
obtained its 60-day extension and then some, by filing this present motion.
Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts refusing to grant a 60-day extension on
responses pushing the response date up against the then discovery cut-off is
not sanctionable conduct. Moreover, Plaintiff contends JSR’s request for an
extension was coupled with a request for a trial continuance, so refusing those
requests is not sanctionable. Additionally, Plaintiff argues this motion’s only
purpose was to continue to delay discovery and force Plaintiff to incur
attorneys’ fees. Lastly, Plaintiff asserts JSR’s speculation about the timing
of service of the discovery is false because the timing was intended to allow
receipt of responses and responsive documents prior to JSR’s deposition that
was noticed for November 28, 2023 and prior to the then discovery cut-off tied
to the prior January 2024 trial date. Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Hirsh for unsuccessfully making this motion and advising the conduct leading to
this motion in the amount of $5,450.00. 
 
            In reply, JSR concedes that the
first part of its motion is moot because the requested time period has passed
for extending the time for response to the Discovery. By contrast, JSR argues
the issuance of a sanctions award against Plaintiff and its counsel is not moot
because the motion is meritorious. JSR contends it was forced to filed this
instant motion because Plaintiff and its counsel refused to provide a discovery
extension when Hirsh was physically unable to address them due to his 2023
health issues and JSR’s principal’s unavailability due to religious
requirements. Thus, JSR argues the sanctions sought by the motion should be
awarded as there was no substantial justification for Plaintiff and its
counsels’ conduct. Likewise, JSR contends Plaintiff’s request for sanctions
against Hirsh is meritless and malicious and should be denied. JSR asserts
Hirsh has not engaged in any sanctionable conduct and despite Plaintiff never
having filed a motion to compel responses to the Discovery, Hirsh reached out
to Plaintiff’s counsel on several occasions in an attempt to resolve all
matters relating to the Discovery, which Plaintiff rejected.
 
            The Court finds that the bases for
the first part of the motion are moot but were meritorious at the time of the
filing of the motion. JSR’s counsel Hirsh had informed Plaintiff’s counsel
regarding his health issues and the religious observance of Jona Rechnitz.
Hirsh had further informed Plaintiff that these two issues disrupted his
ability to respond to the Discovery and requested an extension of 60-days.
Plaintiff concedes that it refused to provide the 60-day extension and trial
continuance despite knowledge of Hirsh’s health issues and Rechnitz’s religious
requirements. Plaintiff also maintains its actions are not sanctionable
conduct. However, Plaintiff has not demonstrated it acted with substantial
justification in refusing to deny the 60-day extension and trial continuance
provided the issues raised by JSR concerning its counsel’s health issues and
principal’s religious requirements that interfered with JSR serving responses
to the Discovery. Similarly, JSR does not dispute that it still has not
provided the responses and responsive documents to the Discovery despite
receiving an extension by virtue of the filing of this present motion. Thus,
these circumstances make the imposition of sanctions on either party unjust. 
 
Request for Sanctions 
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2017.020, subdivision (b), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective
order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (b).)
 
            As discussed above, neither party
have shown that imposition of sanctions is warranted against the other party
concerning this motion. 
 
            Therefore, the Motion for Protective
Order is DENIED. The request for sanctions is also DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 