  Case Number:  23STCV16078    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and for Attorney’s Fees and
Costs in the Sum of $2,060.00 as and for Discovery Sanctions and Declaration of
Mark Henry Shafron in Support Thereof
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Hector Gonzalez
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Compel Responses to Request for Production, Set One, and for Production of
Documents and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs in the Sum of $2,060.00 as and for
Discovery Sanctions and Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron in Support Thereof
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Hector Gonzalez
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to
Deem Admissions, Admitted for Failure to Respond to Request for Admissions, Set
One and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs in the Sum of $2,060.00 as and for
Discovery Sanctions and Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron in Support Thereof
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Hector Gonzalez
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The FROGs Motions, RPDs Motions, and RFAs Motions are GRANTED. Defendant
shall provide initial responses to the FROGs and RPDs within ten (10) days of
the issuance of this Order. 
 
        The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
The Court AWARDS monetary sanctions for Plaintiff and against
Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach
Investment Properties LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez, in the amount of $180 per
defendant.  
 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On
July 10, 2023, Plaintiff Hector Gonzalez filed his Complaint against Defendant
Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties LLC, Filipe Rodriguez,
and First Choice Interlock, Inc. on causes of action arising from the Parties’
business contracts and interactions. 
 
        On
September 13, 2023, by request of the Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered
default on Defendant First Choice Interlock, Inc. 
 
        On
December 22, 2023, Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment
Properties LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez filed their respective Answers to the
Complaint. 
 
        On
March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed three substantively-identical motions, each
titled “Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production, Set One, and for
Production of Documents and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs in the Sum of
$2,060.00 as and for Discovery Sanctions and Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron
in Support Thereof” (“RPDs Motions”). Each of the RPDs Motions is directed at
one of the non-defaulted Defendants. 
 
        On
March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed three substantively-identical motions, each
titled “Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and for
Attorney’s Fees and Costs in the Sum of $2,060.00 as and for Discovery
Sanctions and Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron in Support Thereof” (“FROGs
Motions”). Each of the FROGs Motions is directed at one of the non-defaulted
Defendants. 
 
        On
March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed three substantively-identical motions, each
titled “Motion to Deem Admissions, Admitted for Failure to Respond to Request
for Admissions, Set One and for Attorney’s Fees and Costs in the Sum of
$2,060.00 as and for Discovery Sanctions and Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron
in Support Thereof” (“RFAs Motions”). Each of the RFAs Motions is directed at
one of the non-defaulted Defendants. 
 
        On
March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Supplemental Proof of Service. 
 
        On
April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed Declaration of Mark Henry Shafron Regarding
Non-Receipt of Opposition to 9 Motions to Compel. 
 
        No
oppositions or other responses have been filed to the discovery motions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
A.         
Legal
Standard for Initial Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
and demand requests are propounded within 30 days after service of the
requests, unless the time is extended by agreement of the parties. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.260, subd. (a), 2030.270, subd. (a), 2031.260, subd. (a),
2031.270, subd. (a).) If a party fails to serve timely responses, "the
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).) By failing to respond, the
offending party waives any objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).)
 
For a motion to compel, all a propounding
party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the
time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were
directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Super. Ct.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905, 906.) Indeed, "[o]nce [a party] 'fail[ed]
to serve a timely response,' the trial court had authority to grant [opposing
party's] motion to compel responses." (Sinaiko Healthcare Counseling,
Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 405.)
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel motions for
interrogatories or requests for production, unless the Court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails
to obey an order compelling answers, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
B. 
    Legal
Standard for Requests for Admission
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom the request for admissions is directed within
30 days after service of the request for admissions. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.250, subd. (a).)
 
If the party fails to serve a timely response,
“the party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection
to the requests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
 
The requesting party may then “move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanction
under Chapter 7.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
A court will deem requests admitted, “unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.
It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Discovery Requests
 
Plaintiff propounded form interrogatories (“FROGs”), requests for
production of documents (“RPDs”), and requests for admission (“RFAs”) on the
non-defaulted Defendants on December 27, 2023. (FROGs Motions, Exh. A, Proof of
Electronic Service; RPDs Motions, Exh. A, Proof of Electronic Service; RFAs
Motions, Exh. A, Proof of Electronic Service.)
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to compel the non-defaulted Defendants to
served responses to the FROGs and the RPDs. (FROGs Motions, p. 5; RPDs Motions,
p. 6.) Plaintiff also moves the Court to deem admitted the truth of the matters
specified in the RFAs. (RFAs Motions, pp. 6–8.)
 
According to Plaintiff’s Counsel, no responses have been served to the
FROGs, RPDs, or RFAs. (FROGs Motions, Decl. Shafron, ¶ 4; RPDs Motions, Decl.
Shafron, ¶ 4; RFAs Motions, Decl. Shafron, ¶ 4.)
 
        The Court has no evidence that the
Defendants responded to these discovery requests. 
 
        The Court GRANTS the FROGs Motions, RPDs
Motions, and RFAs Motions.  
 
        Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties LLC, and
Filipe Rodriguez shall
provide initial responses to the FROGs and RPDs within ten (10) days of the
issuance of this Order. 
 
        Further, the RFAs served on each defendant are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
B. 
    Sanctions
 
Plaintiff requests $2,060.00 in monetary sanctions for each of the
motions.
 
The Court has no evidencethat there is a substantial justification for
the failure to respond, or that there are other circumstances that would make
the imposition of a sanction unjust. Thus, the Court must impose monetary
sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel declares: (1) that they charge $400.00 per hour;
(2) that they incurred five hours of work for each of these nine discovery
motions; and (3) that they paid $60.00 in costs for each of these motions. 
 
The Court finds that the hourly rates and costs incurred are
reasonable. However, the attorney hours incurred for the motions are
duplicative, and the motions are unlikely to have taken nearly as long as
claimed. Each of the discovery motions (the FROGs Motions, RPDs Motions, and
RFAs Motions) are, mutatis mutandis, identical.  All of these motions are boiler-plate motions,
that have clearly been on counsel’s computer and used numerous times previously.  Further, there is no way that each motion
took exactly 5.0 hours, as stated by Attorney Shafron.  
 
“If . .
. the Court were required to award a reasonable fee when an outrageously
unreasonable one has been asked for, claimants would be encouraged to make
unreasonable demands, knowing that the only unfavorable consequence of such
misconduct would be reduction of their fee to what they should have asked in
the first place. To discourage such greed, a severer reaction is needful.”  (Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d
621, 635 [cleaned up].)   “A fee request
that appears unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to
reduce the award or deny one altogether.” (Chavez v. City of Los Angeles
(2010) 47 Cal.4th 970, 990; Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1137; Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635.)

 
The Court declines to award attorney's fees sanctions, but will award
plaintiff’s counsel sanctions in the amount of the filing fees for each motion.
 
The Court AWARDS monetary sanctions for Plaintiff and against
Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment
Properties LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez, in the amount of $180 per defendant.  
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The FROGs Motions, RPDs Motions, and RFAs Motions are GRANTED. Defendant
shall provide initial responses to the FROGs and RPDs within ten (10) days of
the issuance of this Order. 
 
        The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
The Court AWARDS monetary sanctions for Plaintiff and against
Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach
Investment Properties LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez, in the amount of $180 per
defendant.  
 