 Case Number:  23STCV01711    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AJA
  VASQUEZ-LOOPER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RENAISSANCE IMAGING MEDICAL ASSOCIATES,
  INC.; 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV01711
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Renewed Motion for Leave to File First
  Amended Complaint
 
Date: March 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Aja Vasquez-Looper
RESPONDING PARTY: N/A
– Unopposed
 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
As it is unopposed, Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion for Leave to File First Amend
Complaint is GRANTED.  
 
BACKGROUND
             This case stems from alleged violations of the
Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.  On January 25, 2023 Aja Vasquez-Looper (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Renaissance Imaging Medical Associates, Inc. (“RIMA”)
for billing Plaintiff after she suffered a work-related injury that she alleges
should have been paid for by her workers’ compensation insurance. (Complaint,
¶¶ 30-32.) After discovery, Plaintiff determined that a separate entity –
Xifin, Inc. – was responsible for incorrectly billing Plaintiff not RIMA.
Plaintiff then dismissed RIMA and now places the current motion before the
Court – Plaintiff’s Renewed Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
(the “Motion”). The Motion is unopposed. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard for
a Motion for Leave to Amend a Complaint
            The governing statute here is CCP
473 which provides in pertinent part:
 
            (a)(1) The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.
            (2) When it appears to the
satisfaction of the court that the amendment renders it necessary, the court
may postpone the trial, and may, when the postponement will by the amendment be
rendered necessary, require, as a condition to the amendment, the payment to
the adverse party of any costs as may be just.  (CCP § 473(a)(1) – CCP § 473(2).)
 
Analysis
            The Court will grant the Motion
because (1) it is in the interests of justice, and (2) no party shall suffer
prejudice. CCP § 473(a)(1) allows for broad discretion on adjudicating motions
for leave to amend.  Additionally,
judicial policy favors resolution of disputed matters, thus the Court’s
discretion will be exercised liberally to permit amendment to the pleadings. (Nestle
v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920.) Moreover, as there is
currently no trial date set, it is unlikely that the proposed new party will
suffer any prejudice as it is within the Court’s discretion to postpone any
hearings so that they may have the full opportunity to defend themselves against
a suit. 
CONCLUSION
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Renewed Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 