  Case Number:  21STCV32886    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



OLLYE G. INGRAM, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ANTHONY
  THOMPSON, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV32886
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF CONSUMER
  RECORDS
 
AND
  NOTICE OF CONTINUANCE OF OTHER MOTIONS TO QUASH
 
Date:  March 26, 2024
Time:
  8:30 a.m.
Dept.
  56
 



AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Centaurus
Financial, Inc. (“Defendant”)
 
            The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises
out of alleged mishandling of Plaintiffs’ investment property.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) California
financial elder abuse; (3) Illinois financial elder abuse; (4) breach of
contract; (5) breach of implied duty of good faith and fair dealing; (6) aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (7) negligence; (8) violation of
Business & Professions Code sections 17200 and 17500; (9) common law fraud;
and (10) negligent misrepresentation.  
 
On March 1, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed: (1) a motion to quash Defendant’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of
Consumer Records of Plaintiff J. Roger Gorski, individually and as trustee of
The J. Roger Gorski Trust Dated 7-28-2005 (“Plaintiff Gorski”) to Third Party
BMO Bank N.A./BMO Harris/Harris Bank (“BMO”) (the “BMO Subpoena”); and (2) a motion
to quash Defendant’s Deposition Subpoena for Production of Consumer Records of
Plaintiff Gorski to Third Party George L. Hukriede Accountancy Corp. (“Hukriede”)
(the “Hukriede Subpoena”).
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1
authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance
with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders.
In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or
nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it. (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
221.) 
 
Where privacy rights are at stake,
“[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance
these competing considerations. . . . Courts must instead place the burden on
the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh
the countervailing interests the opposing party identifies. . . . What suffices
to justify an invasion will . . . vary according to the context. Only obvious
invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531,
552-557 (internal citations omitted).) In instances in which the interests at
stake are fundamental to personal autonomy, the party seeking discovery must
demonstrate that the information is directly relevant to the issues in the action,
and that there is a compelling public interest in the disclosure of the
information that outweighs the right to privacy  (Board of Trustees v.
Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 525.)  
 
Analysis
            Initially,
the Court notes that although Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s opposition
brief exceeds the 10 page limit pursuant to California Rules of Court rule 3.1113(d),
in fact the 10 page limit applies only to reply or closing memoranda. Both
opening and responding (opposition) briefs may be 15 pages. Thus, the Court considers
Defendants’ opposition in full. 
 
The BMO Subpoena
The BMO Subpoena seeks the following:
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 1: All order
forms, subscription agreements, placement memorandums or other DOCUMENTS
through which PLAINTIFF made any investments.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 2: All
tax-related documents relating to PLAINTIFF for the period of time that
PLAINTIFF held their [sic] respective investments.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 3: All monthly or
other periodic account statements sent to PLAINTIFF regarding their [sic] respective
investments.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 4: Any and all
correspondence between PLAINTIFF or any of their [sic] representatives or
employees and YOU or anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’[sic] behalf.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 5: Any and all
correspondence, brochures marketing materials, letters, information packets,
notices, and notes of telephone conversations which evidence, refer or relate
in any manner to communications (whether oral or written) between YOU or any of
YOUR representatives or employees and the PLAINTIFF or anyone acting on his
behalf relating or pertaining to any and all investment(s) maintained by or on
behalf of the PLAINTIFF.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 6: Any and all
DOCUMENTS relating to distributions made to PLAINTIFF in connection with their [sic]
investments.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 7: Any and all
DOCUMENTS relating to the current value of PLAINTIFF’ [sic] investment(s).
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 8: Any and all
DOCUMENTS referencing, memorializing, or reflecting any meetings between
PLAINTIFF or any of their’ [sic] representatives or employees and YOU or anyone
acting on PLAINTIFF’ [sic] behalf.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 9: All new
account forms, applications, contracts, profiles, questionnaires [sic] customer
agreements, files and contracts of any kind relating to account(s) maintained
by or on behalf of PLAINTIFF as identified in the Subpoena Duces Tecum,
and all accounts which PLAINTIFF controls or in which PLAINTIFF has an interest
in any capacity. (Declaration of Dharmi C. Mehta in support of the BMO Motion (“Mehta
Decl.”), Exhibit 1.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the Court should grant the BMO Motion because the BMO Subpoena: (1) seeks
categories of documents that are not reasonably specified; (2) seeks
information protected by Plaintiff Gorski’s right to privacy, including his
right to financial privacy; (3) seeks irrelevant documents; (4) is overbroad as
to time and subject matter; (5) is unduly burdensome; and (6) is an improper
effort to obtain protected documents from a non-party.
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the documents sought by the BMO Subpoena are
relevant to the issues in this case, including but not limited to: (1) the
scope of the fiduciary duty, if any, owed by Defendant to Plaintiff; (2) Defendant’s
purported obligation to determine the suitability of the subject investment and
whether Defendant complied with its purported obligations; (3) whether Plaintiff
was obligated to conduct his own diligence into the investment and his ability
to conduct reasonable diligence to discover facts allegedly material to the
investment, in light of Plaintiff’s financial sophistication/status and
investment experience/background; (4) the evaluation of Plaintiff’s allegations
that he was a relatively vulnerable and unsophisticated party for purposes of
his efforts to obtain treble and punitive damages against Defendant; and (5)
the determination of whether Plaintiff’s alleged reliance on any purported
misrepresentations was reasonable in light of his intelligence, financial
sophistication and investment background/experience. 
 
The Court
finds that the requested documents are relevant to the issues of this case,
specifically in determining Plaintiff’s financial sophistication, background
and investment experience for purposes of determining Plaintiff’s reasonable
reliance on any alleged misrepresentation. 

The Court
does note that two Requests, Request Nos. 4 and 8, appear to have significant typographical
error, but will be interpreted by the Court to read instead: 
 
4.         Any
and all correspondence between PLAINTIFF or any of his representatives or
employees and YOU or anyone acting on YOUR behalf.
 
8.         Any
and all DOCUMENTS referencing, memorializing or reflecting any meetings between
PLAINTIFF or any of his representatives or employees and YOU or anyone acting
on YOUR behalf. (Mehta Decl., Exhibit 1.)
 
The Court
does find that the information sought by the BMO Subpoena contains sensitive
information and implicates privacy concerns.  For that reason, the Court orders that the
parties meet and confer and stipulate to the issuance of a Protective Order in
the form approved by the Los Angeles County Superior Court for Confidential
(not Highly Confidential) documents and submit that Stipulation for Protective
Order and [Proposed] Order to the Court by close of business April 5, 2024.  
 
The Court
also notes that while the time period specified in the BMO Subpoena is for a
considerable period of time, namely January 1, 2010 to the present, the time period
alleged in the SAC goes back to 2013, such that information regarding Plaintiff
Gorsky’s financial activities prior to that time – at least to the time period for
which documents are sought by the BMO Subpoena – is reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 

 
Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED as
to the BMO Subpoena, subject to the limitations stated above. 
The Hukriede Subpoena
The Hukriede Subpoena seeks the
following:
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 1: For the
RELEVANT PERIOD, complete tax returns, including all pages of Form 1040 and
1120S, related schedules, and the IRS worksheets related to these schedules,
filed on behalf of PLAINTIFF, or on behalf of any companies, entities, or
businesses owned by PLAINTIFF or in which PLAINTIFF had any control or in which
they [sic] have [sic]/had any interest in any capacity.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 2: Any and all
COMMUNICATIONS, including emails, and/or COMMUNICATIONS between any
representatives of YOU and PLAINTIFF or anyone acting on their [sic] behalf
regarding investments (including securities), securities accounts, brokerage
accounts and tax issues relating to those investments and/or accounts during
the RELEVANT PERIOD.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 3: All DOCUMENTS
evidencing COMMUNICATIONS between or on behalf of PLAINTIFF and YOU pertaining
to the PLAINTIFF’ [sic] tax obligations for the RELEVANT PERIOD.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 4: All DOCUMENTS
reflecting PLAINTIFF’S net worth, including financial statements, balance
sheets, spreadsheets, and similar statements of their [sic] assets for the
RELEVANT PERIOD.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 5: Any and all
DOCUMENTS, including any accountant workpapers, referencing, pertaining to, or
reflecting information pertaining to any investment activity by PLAINTIFF.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 6: All order
forms, subscription agreements, placement memorandums or other DOCUMENTS
through which PLAINTIFF made any investments.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 7: All monthly or
other periodic account statements sent to PLAINTIFF regarding their [sic] investments
including but not limited to TNP Spring Gate Plaza and/or MVP REIT, INC.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 8: Any and all of
PLAINTIFF’S 1031 Exchange documents.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 9: Any and all of
PLAINTIFF’S loan documents.
 
DOCUMENT REQUEST NO. 10: Any and all documents
pertaining to PLAINTIFF’S real estate investments, including 1031 properties.
(Mehta Decl., Exhibit 1.)
 
The
parties make similar arguments regarding the Hukriede Subpoena as they make
regarding the BMO Subpoena, discussed supra. 
 
The Court
finds that the requested documents are relevant to the issues of this case,
specifically in determining Plaintiff’s financial sophistication, background,
and investment experience for purposes of determining Plaintiff’s reasonable
reliance on any alleged misrepresentation. 
 
The one
exception to this ruling is as to Category 1, which seeks Plaintiff Gorsky’s
income tax returns, and any other Category, such as Request No. 9, which may
include income tax returns.  While there
is no recognized federal or state constitutional right to maintain the privacy
of tax returns (see, e.g., Couch v. United States (1973) 409 U.S.
322, 336-337 and Deary v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1072, 1075, fn. 2, 1077-1078), the California courts have interpreted state
taxation statutes as creating a statutory privilege against disclosing tax
returns.  (See, e.g., Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 702, 718-721.)  The purpose of the privilege is to encourage
voluntary filing of tax returns and truthful reporting of income, and thus to
facilitate tax collection. (Webb v. Standard Oil Co. (1957) 49 Cal.2d
509, 513.)
 
Although
this statutory tax privilege is not absolute, none of the exceptions thereto --intentional
waiver, the gravamen of the lawsuit being inconsistent with the privilege, and
public policy (Schnabel, supra at 5 Cal.4th 721) --  applies here. 
This Court has broad discretion in determining the applicability of a
statutory privilege (National Football League Properties, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 100, 106-107) and this Court exercises
its discretion to apply the statutory privilege to the requested documents and
therefore does not order discovery of tax returns in this case.
 
Accordingly, the Hukriede Motion is GRANTED
as to Category 1 and DENIED as to all other Categories in the Hukriede Subpoena,
subject to the limitations stated above, and subject to the submission of a
proposed Protective Order. 
 
ORDER TO MEET AND CONFER
In light of the fact that there are
approximately twenty-three (23) other motions to quash on file in this case scheduled
to be heard from March 27 to April 30 (incidentally, consuming most if not all
of the available time on this Court’s calendar for discovery matters for that
time period) which, although the Court has not yet reviewed all of them in
detail, appear to involve very similar issues to those decided herein, the
Court orders that the parties meet and confer after the hearing on these
motions in an attempt to resolve some or all of those other motions based upon
this ruling. 
 
In order to facilitate compliance with
this meet and confer order, all of the other motions to quash currently on
calendar in this case are hereby ordered continued by two weeks from the dates
of the current hearings.  The Court will
give notice of these continuances.
 
PLAINTIFFS are ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
     Dated this 26th
day of March 2024
 
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 
 