 Case Number:  22STCV18790    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TAICHANDRA
  FYELDEES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALLIED PHYSICIANS OF CALIFORNIA, PMC dba
  ALLIED PACIFIC IPA and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV18790
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO STRIKE MEMORANDUM OF COSTS
 
Date: March 26, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Taichandra Fyeldees (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Allied Physicians of California, PMC (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             On June 8, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative
Complaint in this case against Defendant Allied Physicians of California, PMC
dba Allied Pacific IPA, erroneously sued and served as Allied Pacific
IPA (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive for: (1) General Negligence;
(2) Humiliation; and (3) Emotional Distress. 
On
June 28, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Summary Judgment. The motion was
unopposed. On January 10, 2024, this Court granted the Motion for Summary
Judgment. On January 24, 2024, Defendant filed its Memorandum of Costs
(Summary).
 
On
February 13, 2024, this Court entered Judgment in favor of Defendant on the
Motion for Summary Judgment, ordering that Plaintiff take nothing by this
action and Defendant recover from Plaintiff the costs of suit in the sum of
$4,685.94. 
 
            On February 5, 2024,  Plaintiff
filed this instant Motion to Strike Memorandum of Costs. On February 13, 2024,
Defendant filed its opposition. The reply was due on March 19, 2024; however,
none has been filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032(b).)
“Allowable costs shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation
rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5(c)(2).)  “If the items
appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the
party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.”
(Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal. App. 4th 761,
774.) “On the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put
in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs.” (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff moves to strike the entire
amount of the Memorandum of Costs. Plaintiff argues she is currently on  a limited income, receiving $1,385.00
monthly. Plaintiff further asserts she is a single parent of six children, ages
23 (who lives over five hours away), 6, 5, 3, and twins that are five (5)
months old. Moreover, Plaintiff asserts she is enrolled in a Doctor of
Psychology program, where she makes monthly tuition payments of $445.00 and
other monthly expenses as well. As such, Plaintiff contends she is unable to
pay what the Defendant is requesting. Plaintiff also contends she received a
fee waiver to file this case. Additionally, Plaintiff contends that she did not
foresee this case not going to trial, would like to receive a Final Judgment so
she can pursue further action, and Defendant knew of her mental health and
medical history. Lastly, Plaintiff argues Defendant used its knowledge of her
health history to bombard her with several emails, motions, and requests in an
effort to deter her from pursuing this case. 
 
            In opposition, Defendant argues
Plaintiff does not cite to any legal authority whatsoever for striking its
Memorandum of Costs. In fact, Defendant asserts Plaintiff’s sole ground for her
motion is that she  is unable to pay a
costs award, a circumstance which is not germane to her motion. Defendant
further argues the right to costs is strictly statutory and awarded as a matter
of right in favor of the prevailing party in personal injury actions such as
this case. Defendant asserts it is the prevailing party by virtue of the Court’s
having granted its Motion for Summary Judgment on January 10, 2024. Moreover,
Defendant contends an entire cost bill may only be stricken for late service or
another irregularity, or on the ground that the action or judgment does not
call for a cost award. (Markart v. Zeimer (1925) 74 Cal.App. 152, 156.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not allege late service or any other
procedural deficiency, and does not cite any authority holding that this is not
an action which calls for a cost award. 
 
In
addition, Defendant asserts that in this action Plaintiff alleged she suffered
damages in the amount of $1,585,000.00 consisting of pain, suffering, and
inconvenience in the amount of $523,050.00 and emotional distress in the amount
of $1,061,950.00. (Platt Decl., ¶, Ex. A.) As such, Defendant was compelled to
retain an attorney and to expend substantial sums in discovery, in bringing
several discovery motions, in bringing a Motion for Summary Judgment, and
otherwise, in order to defend itself in this action. Finally, Defendant
contends California courts have rightly and reasonably held that when a party
is entitled to an award of costs, an alleged inability to pay is not legal grounds
for striking a cost memorandum.  
 
            The Court finds that any contentions
regarding Defendant’s conduct in this case, Plaintiff’s efforts in pursuing
Final Judgment, and Plaintiff’s medical and mental health history are
irrelevant to the relief sought in this present motion. Thus, these contentions
and allegations have not be considered in the ruling on this motion. The Court
further finds that an inability to pay a cost award is not grounds for striking
a memorandum of costs. Plaintiff cites neither statutory nor case law authority
supporting such contention or argument. Also, Plaintiff has not shown that the
costs sought by Defendant were unreasonable or unnecessary to the conduct of
the litigation. By contrast, Defendant has shown that these costs were
reasonably and necessarily incurred to defend itself against Plaintiff’s claims
for substantial damages giving rise to this action. 
 
            Therefore, the Motion to Strike
Memorandum of Costs is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 26th day of March 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



