

Hearing Date:              March
12, 2024
Case
Name:                 Michaels v. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center
Case
No.:                    23STCV03454
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment
or Motion for Summary Adjudication 
Moving
Party:             Defendants California
Rehabilitation Institute, LLC and Alexandra Strouss, M.S.
Opposing Party:          None

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary judgment is granted. 

This is a medical
malpractice action. The Complaint alleges, on March 29, 2022, Plaintiff Ed
Michaels (Plaintiff) was injured by Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(Cedars-Sinai), California Rehabilitation Institute, and Alexandra Strouss,
M.S., in the course of their treatment and care of Plaintiff. The Complaint
contains a single cause of action for professional negligence/medical
malpractice.  
 
Defendants California
Rehabilitation Institute, LLC and Alexandra Strouss, M.S. (Defendants) now move
for summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. No
opposition was filed.  
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party
has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
Medical Negligence Cause of
Action:
 
Defendants move
for summary judgment on the grounds that Defendants did not provide any care to
Plaintiff on the day Plaintiff allegedly sustained his injury. 
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Johnson
v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) To prove a medical
malpractice claim, the plaintiff must first establish the applicable standard
of care and then demonstrate that the standard of care was breached. (Powell
v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122.) 
 
Here, Defendants
submit evidence that it has no record of ever treating Plaintiff and Plaintiff
also has no medical records indicating that he received any treatment from
Defendants. (DSS 7-14.)  
 
Rather,
Defendants’ medical evidence shows that on March 26, 2022, Plaintiff presented
to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center with complaints of chronic neuropathic lower
back pain and radiation into his legs. (DSS 9.) On March 29, 2022 at 4:28 p.m.,
Shireen Hosseini, PT performed an Acute Physical Therapy Initial Evaluation and
Discharge. (DSS 11.) At approximately 4:55 p.m., Plaintiff was returned supine
in bed and the evaluation was ended. (DSS 12.) At 5:48 p.m., physician
assistant Bita Joobbani, PA-C, wrote a progress note stating that she was
called by an unspecified nurse who told her that Plaintiff had an unwitnessed
fall and was found on the ground in his room a while after he finished working
with PT. (DSS 13.) Thereafter, Plaintiff continued his care and treatment at Cedars-Sinai
until the time of his discharge in stable condition on April 5, 2022. (DSS 14.)
 
Defendants’
evidence affirmatively demonstrates that Plaintiff cannot prove the essential
element of a breach of duty of care by Defendants. Defendants have shifted
their initial burden on this medical negligence claim.
 
            In
the absence of an opposition, Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of
material fact in dispute. 
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for
summary judgment is granted. Defendants shall prepare, serve and lodge a
proposed Judgment on or before March 27, 2024. 

 