

Hearing
Date:             March 12, 2024
Case
Name:                Holmes v. Natures
Image, Inc.
Case
No.:                    22STCV35667
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Natures Image, Inc.

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Daniel Holmes

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted.

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Daniel Holmes (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on November
10, 2022, alleging causes of action for FEHA violations and a violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5 against his former employer, Defendant Natures Image, Inc. (Defendant).
 
            On
January 23, 2024, Defendant filed a “petition” to compel arbitration pursuant
to the parties’ arbitration agreement.[1]
Plaintiff opposed the petition. A reply was filed. 
 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is granted. 
 
            Evidentiary Issues
 
            Plaintiff’s objection
to the reply as untimely is overruled. Plaintiff’s objections to Defendants’
evidence are ruled as follows: Nos. 2-5 are sustained.  
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the action while the
arbitration is pending.
 
I.              
Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on a 2020 arbitration agreement. In support
of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant submits evidence that Plaintiff
began
working for Defendant in January 3, 2020. (Fox Decl., ¶ 4.) In connection to
his employment, Plaintiff
executed an agreement titled “Application for Entry
Level Employment” (Agreement), obligating him to arbitrate any employment-related
disputes with Defendant Natures Image. (Fox Decl., ¶¶ 5-9, Ex. A.)
 
The Agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendant mutually agreed that “ANY CONTROVERSY, CLAIM OR DISPUTE
BETWEEN YOU AND THE COMPANY (AND/OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES, OWNERS,
SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS, MEMBERS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, VOLUNTEERS OR AGENTS)
RELATING TO OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOUR EMPLOYMENT (IF HIRED) OR THE
CESSATION OF THAT EMPLOYMENT WILL BE SUBMITTED TO FINAL AND BINDING ARBITRATION
BEFORE A NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR IN THE COUNTY IN WHICH YOU LAST WORK(ED) FOR
DETERMINATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION’S
EMPLOYMENT ARBITRATION RULES (EXCLUDING MEDIATION) AS THE EXCLUSIVE REMEDY FOR
SUCH CONTROVERSY, CLAIM OR DISPUTE.” (Fox Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. A.) 
 
Additionally, Defendant submits evidence
that its activities and operations involve interstate commerce. (Fox Decl., ¶ 2.)

 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the arbitration
agreement or otherwise deny signing the agreement. (Holmes Decl., ¶ 10.) In
fact, he implicitly concedes that signed the document titled ““Application
for Entry Level Employment” but states that he “understood” he was “completing
an application for employment only.” (Holmes Decl., ¶ 10. Thus, there
is no factual dispute as to the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
between the parties.[2]

 
II.            
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement 
 
A.   
Waiver
 
            Plaintiff
argues that Defendant waived its right to seek arbitration. 
 
            “A
party seeking to prove waiver of a right to arbitration must demonstrate: ‘
“(1) knowledge of an existing right to compel arbitration; (2) acts inconsistent with that existing right; and (3)
prejudice to the party opposing arbitration.” ’ ” (Hoover v. American Income
Life Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1203.) “Although participating
in the litigation of an arbitrable claim does not by itself waive a party's
right to later seek to arbitrate the matter, at some point continued litigation
of the dispute justifies a finding of waiver.” (Bower v. Inter-Con Security
Systems, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1042.)
 
“[A]
petitioning party’s conduct in stretching out the litigation process itself may
cause prejudice by depriving the other party of the advantages of arbitration
as an ‘expedient, efficient and cost-effective method to resolve disputes.’
[Citation.] Arbitration loses much, if not all, of its value if undue time and
money is lost in the litigation process preceding a last-minute petition to
compel.” (Burton v. Cruise (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 939, 948.) However, a
delay in seeking arbitration absent prejudice is insufficient to show waiver. (Khalatian
v. Prime Time Shuttle, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 651, 663.)
 
Because the
law favors arbitration, waiver will not be lightly inferred. (Saint Agnes
Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195.) A
party asserting waiver of the right to arbitrate “bears a heavy burden of
proof,” with all doubts to be resolved in favor of arbitration. (Ibid.)
 
Here, the
Complaint was filed on November 10, 2022. As noted by Plaintiff, Defendant
filed an Answer on December 27, 2022, which made no reference to arbitration. At
a March 22, 2023 Case Management Conference, jury trial was set for February 3,
2025. Notably, however, the motion to compel arbitration was not filed until
January 23, 2024 – fourteen months after this action was filed. 
 
However, as
a preliminary matter, Defendant submits evidence that it was not aware of the signed
Agreement until January 5, 2024. (Smith Decl., ¶ 6.) As such, Defendant’s prior
acts could not count as a knowing waiver of a known right. 
 
Further, there
has been no other motion practice in this case. That is, there has been little litigation in this action as no motions
have been filed since the inception of litigation. Thus, there has been no
ruling on the merits of any issues that would have any effect on an incumbent
arbitrator. (McConnell v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, & Smith, Inc.
(1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 946, 951 [“Partial or piecemeal litigation of issues in
dispute, through pretrial procedures, may in many instances justify a finding
of waiver . . .”].)
 
Additionally,
while the parties have engaged in discovery, the reply notes that Plaintiff has
failed to demonstrate that this discovery constitutes “taking advantage of judicial
discovery procedures not available in arbitration.” (Saint Agnes Med.
Ctr. v. PacifiCare (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196 [emphasis added].) Absence
such a showing, undertaking discovery does result in prejudice to Plaintiff. That is, although
Plaintiff argues prejudice (Opp. 8:0-9:2.), Plaintiff does not submit any
evidence of prejudice aside from the delay alone. (Gloster v. Sonic
Automotive, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 438, 449 [“[T]he delay alone was
not sufficient to support a finding of waiver.”].) For example, the hours
incurred by Plaintiff’s attorneys in mediation are not prejudicial where Plaintiff
does not show that these costs are in fact a “waste” – that is, of no value to
an arbitration proceeding. Even Plaintiff’s conclusory assertion that he has “disclosed
his evidence and strategies” does not demonstrate prejudice. 
 
Plaintiff also
notes that Defendant has been delinquent in bringing this arbitration agreement
to Plaintiff’s attention in response to pre-litigation document demands and
discovery. While true, this factor appears only to weigh further on the issue of
delay but does not demonstrate specific prejudice – especially where Defendant
submits evidence that the Agreement was newly discovered. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff
has not carried its “heavy” burden of demonstrating waiver.
 
B.    Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. 
 
If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff
first argues the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
arbitration provision was a condition of employment and offered on a take-it-or
leave it basis. That
is, Plaintiff had no ability to negotiate the terms of the Agreement, and
Defendant made no effort to explain its terms to Plaintiff. (Holmes Decl., ¶¶ 6-9.)
In sum, Plaintiff could either sign the Agreement or find another job.
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that he did not know what he was signing and believed it was only
an application for employment. (Holmes Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
            Given the
take it or leave it nature of the contract, the arbitration agreement suffers
from some minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. It is an
adhesive contract, as are most employment agreements; “few employees are in a
position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 115.) 
 
However, Plaintiff’s purported
failure to understand the terms of the arbitration provision does not add to
the procedural unconscionability of the Application for Employment. (Gutierrez v.
Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 88 [“[S]imply because a
provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or understood by the
nondrafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.”].) Further, the
arbitration provision was highly conspicuous in the Application for Employment.
The arbitration provision was also not buried in a long document, in a smaller
font, or otherwise hidden. (Armendariz, at p. 114 [“Surprise” is defined
as “the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are
hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the
disputed terms.”].) In fact, the document was a single page and the arbitration
provision portion was in all capital letters, making it highly visible. 
 
            Thus,
there is only a small degree of procedural unconscionability arising from the Agreement.

 
The only
argument Plaintiff raises with respect to substantively unconscionability of
the Agreement is the claim that the arbitration agreement lacked mutuality
because there was no space for Defendant to countersign in the Agreement. 
 
First, the
Agreement specifically provides that “ANY CONTROVERSY, CLAIM OR DISPUTE BETWEEN YOU AND THE
COMPANY (AND/OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES, OWNERS, SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS,
MEMBERS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, VOLUNTEERS OR AGENTS) RELATING TO OR ARISING OUT
OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOUR EMPLOYMENT (IF HIRED) OR THE CESSATION OF THAT
EMPLOYMENT WILL BE SUBMITTED TO FINAL AND BINDING ARBITRATION BEFORE A NEUTRAL
ARBITRATOR . . ..” (Fox Decl., Ex. A.) Thus, the clear language of the
Agreement does not carve out a litigation option for Defendant as the
arbitration applies to “any” claims between the parties. 
 
Further, a “missing signature is irrelevant to
whether the substance of the contact is fair.” (Fuentes v.
Empire Nissan, Inc. (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 919, 933.) Said another way,
this argument does not inform at all on the substantive unconscionability of
the agreement. Moreover, under the circumstances, the absence of Defendant’s signature
on the Agreement does not demonstrate a lack of asset by Defendant to the Arbitration
provision. (See e.g., Fuentes v. Empire Nissan, Inc., surpa, 90
Cal.App.5th at 933 [“A signature can be important to show contractual assent,
but that is beside the point here: Nissan certainly assented to its own
arbitration agreement—the agreement that it drafted and required Fuentes to
sign and that it now is trying to enforce. In this setting, no signature was
necessary to prove Nissan's assent.”].)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff
has not demonstrated any substantive unconscionability. Based on the foregoing,
the unconscionability argument fails. (See OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8
Cal.5th 111, 125–126 [“Both procedural and substantive unconscionability must
be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present in
the same degree.’”].) 
 
Plaintiff
has not met his burden of demonstrating that the Agreement is unconscionable or
otherwise unenforceable. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. The matter is stayed pending issuance
of the arbitrator’s decision. 


