  Case Number:  22STCV15060    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


            Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Eileen
  Carry and Sylvia Merino,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:

 


 
22STCV15060




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling

 




 
Boys
  & Girls Clubs of Santa Monica, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date: July 2, 2024
Department
54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion
for Summary Judgment
Moving
Party: Plaintiffs
Eileen Carry and Sylvia Merino 
Responding
Party: Defendants, Boys’ & Girls’ Club of Santa Monica
and Robert J. Sullivan Inc.
T/R:     PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED.
            PLAINTIFFS
TO GIVE NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
            The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
BACKGROUND
            On June 2, 2022, Plaintiffs
Eileen Carry and Sylvia Merino filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants Boys’ & Girls’ Club of Santa Monica and Robert J.
Sullivan, Inc. for declaratory relief. Plaintiffs occupy a rental unit owned by
Defendants. In 2018, Defendants filed an unlawful detainer action against
Plaintiffs; judgment was entered in favor of Defendants in 2019. The appellate
court affirmed the judgment. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants did not seek
possession of the unit after remittitur and continued to collect rent from
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief, stating a new tenancy has been
formed.
The unlawful
detainer action, filed by Defendant Sullivan Inc. on November 9, 2018, claimed
that Carry and Merino had impermissibly installed a lattice fence on the
Apartment’s patio. After a bench trial the court found in favor of Defendant
Sullivan and against Plaintiffs Carry and Merino. The court subsequently stayed
enforcement of its judgment pending appeal, requiring Carry and Merino to pay “rent”
as consideration for the stay. The judgment was affirmed on August 12, 2021,
and the remittitur was issued on October 15, 2021. 
Plaintiffs contend
that Defendants did not seek possession of the apartment after issuance of the
remittitur. Instead, Sullivan Inc. collected rent for the apartment from
Plaintiffs on behalf of the Club for September, October, November, and December
2021, and at least January, February, and March 2022. Plaintiffs argue that by
doing so Defendants reinstated Plaintiffs’ tenancy.
On October 24,
2022, this Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer, rejecting the argument that collateral
estopped barred Plaintiffs’ claim.  The Court
held that Defendants failed to show that the unlawful detainer court, in an ex
parte application to vacate the stay on May 23, 2022, intended to fully
decide whether a new tenancy had been created. And at least some of the conduct
at issue in the present matter occurred after judgment in the UD action was
entered. 
ANALYSIS
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment is to
provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties' pleadings in order
to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary judgment if all
the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
In a motion for summary judgment, the plaintiff’s burden is to prove
each element of the cause of action, not to negate all possible defenses.  (CCP § 437c(o)(1).)  Once the plaintiff has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (CCP
§ 437c(o)(1).)  
 
 
A. Declaratory Relief—Rental Reinstatement Pursuant
to Eo Nomine
Plaintiffs allege that by
accepting seven months of consecutive rent payments after the affirmed appeal
in favor of Defendants, including five months after the remittitur, Defendants
reinstated Plaintiffs’ tenancy. Plaintiffs argue that Jones v. Della Maria, (1920) 48 Cal. App. 171, established
that when a landlord or agent accepts rent from a tenant during the eviction
process, the landlord has waived its right to continue the eviction and has established
the tenancy anew. 
“Under section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the landlord,
after giving the three days' notice there provided for, has the right to
maintain an action for restitution of possession and cancellation of the lease.
The attitude of the landlord, after such notice and the commencement of an
action to cancel the lease, is that the tenant no longer is entitled to
possession by virtue of the lease contract; that the tenant has forfeited his
leasehold. Having elected to treat his tenant as no longer entitled to
possession or to any right under the lease, the landlord's course must be
consistent with this claim in the further progress of the proceeding that he
has instituted. And if thereafter he accepts rent accruing subsequently to the
demand for possession or accruing subsequently to the commencement of the action
and accept it as rent eo nomine--that is, as payment under the original
lease contract--he affirms that the lease is still in existence, and thereby
waives the forfeiture that he has elected to enforce. By his own acts he admits
the continuance of the lease and waives any prior forfeiture. A landlord who
thus recognizes a lease as a subsisting, operative contract should not be
permitted to insist upon a past forfeiture, nor be permitted to assert that the
contract is no longer a subsisting lease affording to the tenant all his
contractual rights thereunder.” (Jones, 48 Cal. App. at 173–74.)
            Plaintiffs have met their
initial burden of proving their cause of action. The burden now shifts to
Defendants to show a triable issue of material fact.  
In opposition,
Defendants argue that their acceptance of Plaintiffs’ rent did not reinstate
the tenancy. Defendants provide an excerpt from a June 7, 2019, minute order in
which the UD court ruled that, because it ordered Plaintiffs to pay rent, Plaintiffs’
tenancy had not been reinstituted. Instead, Defendants contend the rent was consideration
for maintaining the stay pending action by the Appellate Division. Defendants
also argue that the doctrines of estoppel and res judicata prevent Plaintiffs
from obtaining summary judgment here.
Defendants have failed to show
a triable issue of material fact. The key issue here is Defendants’ acceptance
of rent for seven months after the Appellate Division ruled, including five
months after issuance of the remittitur. As the UD court noted in its May 23,
2022 order, “the obligation to pay rent 'going forward’ was part of the Court's
stay order and was intended to insure that [the tenants] would pay fair rental
value for occupying the premises pending future action by the Appellate
Department and for this Court.” Defendants could have sought to enforce their forfeiture
order as soon as the remittitur was issued. Instead, they chose to accept rent for
several more months. In so doing they waived enforcement of the forfeiture
order. Pursuant to Jones, Defendants did not have the option of
collecting rent for as long as they wished, and then at a time of their
choosing seek to enforce the forfeiture order. Their months-long, post-remittitur
acceptance of rent reinstated the tenancy.
The Court
addressed Defendants’ res judicata and collateral estoppel arguments in
overruling their demurrer. Nothing in this motion warrants a different ruling. 
The motion
for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
 
 
 