 Case Number:  23STCP01283    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  82 Key Disposal & Recycling, Inc.                               Case No. 23STCP01283
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: May 8, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
City
of Commerce                                                     Department: 82 
                                                                                    Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch 
 
 
[Tentative] Order
Denying Petition for Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Petitioner Key Disposal &
Recycling, Inc. (“Petitioner”) had a waste hauling license from the City of
Commerce (“Respondent” or the “City”). 
On February 20, 2018, the City adopted Resolution 18-21, which
authorized the staff to discontinue issuing recycling hauler licenses,
establish a single license for haulers of refuse and recycling services, and require
all haulers to pay a license fee of 11 percent of gross annual revenue.  On March 7, 2018, the City notified
Petitioner that it could continue serving its existing customers until no later
than April 1, 2023, in accordance with the new licensing model.  On October 2, 2018, the City adopted
Resolution 18-133, which increased the hauler fee from 11 percent to 15 percent
of gross annual revenue.  The City
enacted Ordinance 695 implementing these resolutions.  
 
Over four years later, on April 20,
2023, Petitioner filed a petition for writ of mandate and complaint asserting
the following causes of action: (1) Declaratory relief, (2) Violation of the
Unruh Civil Rights Act, (3) Violation of Title 42, United States Code, section
1983, (4) Tortious interference with business relations, and (5) Writ of
mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.  The court (Beckloff, J.) stayed the second,
third, and fourth causes of action and set trial on the first and fifth causes
of action.  
 
Petitioner argues that the
resolutions and related ordinance were invalid because: (1) the City was
required to publish or post them as required by the Government Code because
they imposed taxes; and (2) The City was required to put the tax on the ballot
for voter approval under the California Constitutional, Article XIII C.  The City argues that the petition for writ of
mandate is procedurally defective because Petitioner has failed to name
indispensable parties; the claim is untimely; and Petitioner lacks
standing.  The City also opposes the
petition on the merits, arguing: (1) The City was not required to publish the
resolutions, and the ordinance complied with the requirements of the Government
Code; and (2) The resolution and ordinance do not impose “taxes.”  Following a hearing, the court denies the
petition for writ of mandate and the claim for declaratory relief for the
following reasons: (1) Petitioner lacks standing; (2) The petition is untimely;
and (3) The hauler license fee is exempt from Article XIII C.  The court lifts the stay on the remaining
causes of action and transfers the case to Department One for assignment to an
independent calendar court for resolution of the second, third, and fourth
causes of action. 


 
BACKGROUND
 
            A.        Resolution 18-21 and Ordinance 695
 
            In response to
State-mandated Commercial Recycling Program regulations and a compliance order
issued by the California Department of Resources and Recycling (“CalRecycle”),
City began transitioning to a semi-exclusive franchise agreement model for
commercial refuse and recycling services in early 2018.  (Nila Decl. ¶ 5.)  In efforts to comply with the CalRecycle
Compliance Order, the City adopted Resolution 18-21 and Ordinance 695. (Nila
Decl. ¶ 6; RJN Exh. A-C.) 
 
Resolution
18-21 was adopted on February 20, 2018, and authorized City staff to: 
 
·       discontinue
issuing recycling hauler licenses,
 
·       establish a single
license for haulers of refuse and/or recycling services, 
 
·       require all
haulers to pay a hauler license fee, and
 
·       transfer an
existing and valid refuse and/or recycling hauler license to the parent company
who acquired the licensed hauler for operating solely under the parent company
name.  (RJN Exh. A.)
 
Also
on February 20, 2018, the City Council adopted Ordinance 695, which repealed,
revised, and replaced Chapter 6.06 (Garbage and Refuse) of Title 6 (Health and
Sanitation) of the Municipal Code. (RJN Exh. B.)  As relevant to this writ petition, Ordinance
695 provides for the payment of licensed hauler fees payable to the City on a
quarterly basis that “are a percentage of” the contractor’s gross receipts for
residential and commercial refuse and/or recycling material arising out of the
performance of services. (RJN Exh. B; Sec. 6.06.070.)  Ordinance 695 did not set or specify the
percentage to be paid for hauler fees.  (Ibid.)  The hauling fee of 11 percent has been in
effect since 2010.  (See Nila Decl., ¶ 9
& Exh. D.)  
 
B.        Request for Proposals
 
On
or around June 5, 2018, the City issued a Request for Proposals to solicit
proposals from existing licensed refuse haulers for both refuse and recycling
services. (Nila Decl. ¶ 7.) Twelve bids were received, including one from
Petitioner, “each of which was analyzed and scored in the areas of quality and
completeness of proposal, corporate capability, reference evaluation, recycling
program evaluation, information management, and additional
qualifications.”  (Ibid.)  “Six companies were originally determined to
be the most responsive to the City’s needs and scope of services required and
achieved a score of 80 or higher.  The
number of authorized haulers was ultimately increased to eight and currently
consists of seven.  Petitioner was not
among the most responsive bidders.” 
(Ibid.)  
 


 
C.        Resolution 18-133
 
Resolution
18-133 was adopted on October 2, 2018, and approved the execution of
Semi-Exclusive Agreements for Commercial Refuse and Recycling Services with
eight companies–not including Petitioner–and adjusted the City’s hauler fee
from 11% to 15%.  Resolution 18-133
indicated that City staff recommended the fee percentage increase because “the
hauler fee has not been increased since 2010.” 
(RJN Exh. C.)
 
D.        Termination of Petitioner’s License 
 
On
March 7, 2018, City issued a notice to Petitioner stating, in part: “City … has
determined that it is in the public interest to discontinue providing solid
waste collection services under its current license-based system, and is
transitioning to a semi-exclusive franchise agreement model…. Accordingly,
pursuant Public Resources Code Section 49520 you are hereby notified that
semi-exclusive franchise waste handling services are to be authorized in the
City, and that all solid waste hauling services provided by you within the City
… shall be terminated no later than April 1, 2023.”  (Nila Decl. Exh. B.)  Petitioner
operated a waste-hauling business in City until March 7, 2023.   (Pet. ¶ 1; Ans. ¶ 1; see also Nila Decl. ¶¶
5-10; RJN Exh. B, D, E.)   
 
E.         Writ Proceedings 
 
On April 20, 2023, Petitioner filed
its petition for writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory relief and other
causes of action.  On July 28, 2023, at
the trial setting conference, the court stayed all causes of action except the
fifth cause of action for writ of mandate and the first cause of action as it
relates to declaratory relief.  On
December 18, 2023, Petitioner filed its opening brief in support of the
petition (“OB”).  On January 24, 2024,
Respondent filed its opposition.  On
February 8, 2024, Petitioner filed its reply.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
The petition for
writ of mandate is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1085.  There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of an ordinary writ of mandate
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and
ministerial duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and
beneficial right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty.
(California Ass’n for Health Services at
Home v. Department of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696,
704.)  “Generally, mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s
performance or to correct an agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being
compelled or corrected is ministerial.”  (AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 700.)   
 
An agency is presumed
to have regularly performed its official duties.  (Evid. Code § 664.) Generally, the petitioner
“bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085.”  (California Correctional Peace Officers Assn.
v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)  A reviewing court “will not act as counsel
for either party to an appeal and will not assume the task of initiating and
prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not
pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v.
Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.)
 
On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, the court exercises independent judgment.  (Christensen
v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  “Interpretation of a statute or regulation is
question of law subject to independent review.” 
(Ibid., citations omitted.)   
  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Petitioner
requests judicial notice of six exhibits, which Respondent does not
oppose.  Therefore, Petitioner’s request
for judicial notice is granted. 
Petitioner does not object to any of Respondent’s exhibits, so the court
shall consider these exhibits.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            1.         The Scope of Petitioner’s Claim is
Limited   
 
            The
gravamen of Petitioner’s claim is that the city imposed a “tax” without
complying with the publication/posting requirements of Government Code section
36933, and without obtaining the approval of the electorate as required by
California Constitution Article XIII C. 
In the opening brief, Petitioner challenges the City’s increase of the hauler
license fee from 11 percent to 15 percent, arguing that this was “arbitrary”
and “more than necessary to cover the reasonable cost of the City’s
activity.”  (OB 10.)  Therefore, the court considers the petition
with respect to the decision to increase the license fee to 15 percent.  
 
Petitioner does not develop an argument
that the existing 11 percent hauler license fee was an improper tax or that
City failed to comply with the
Government Code when it first imposed the fee in or before 2010, thereby waiving
any challenge.  (Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863 [“When an appellant fails to raise a point, or asserts
it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and citations to authority,
we treat the point as waived”].)  Indeed,
Petitioner cannot challenge the City’s decision to assess the 11 percent
license fee in this action.  The City has
imposed the fee on waste haulers since at least 2010, and Petitioner never
challenged that fee.  (See Nila Decl., ¶
9 and Exh. D.)  To the contrary, Petitioner
paid the 11 percent fee without protest from March 2018, when it learned its
right to provide waste hauling services would terminate, until March-April
2023, when Petitioner stopped operating its waste hauling business in
City.  (See Complaint ¶ 1; Answer ¶ 1;
Nila ¶¶ 5-10 and Exh. B, E; OB 1:9-10.)  Petitioner
also does not identify the City resolution or ordinance in which the 11 percent
fee was originally imposed or include any discussion of the alleged defects in
enacting that fee.    
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court finds that Petitioner challenges only the City’s
decision to increase the hauler license fee from 11 percent to 15 percent.  To the extent Petitioner seeks to challenge
the initial imposition of the fee, Petitioner waives the issue for the reasons
stated.[1]
            
            B.        Petitioner Lacks Standing to Assert this
Claim  
 
            Petitioner
lacks standing to challenge Resolution 18-133, which adjusted the City’s hauler
license fee from 11 percent to 15 percent because Petitioner was never
obligated to pay the increased fee and therefore suffered no economic harm.  To have standing to seek a writ of
mandate, a party must be “beneficially interested.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1086.)  “A petitioner is beneficially interested if he
or she has some special interest to be served or some particular right to be
preserved or protected over and above the interest held in common with the
public at large.”  (Rialto Citizens for Responsible Growth v. City of Rialto (2012) 208
Cal. App. 4th 899, 913; accord Carsten v. Psychology Examining Com. (1980)
27 Cal.3d 793, 796-97.)  “This standard …
is equivalent to the federal ‘injury in fact’ test, which requires a party to
prove by a preponderance of the evidence that it has suffered an invasion of a
legally protected interest that is (a) concrete and particularized, and (b)
actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.”  (Associated Builders and Contractors, Inc.
v. San Francisco (1999) 21 Cal.4th 352, 361-362, citations and internal
quotations omitted.)  
 
Here, in March 2018, City notified
Petitioner that its “semi-exclusive
franchise waste handling services are to be authorized in the City, and that
all solid waste hauling services provided by you within the City … shall be
terminated no later than April 1, 2023.” 
(Nila Decl. Exh. B.)  Petitioner
was permitted to operate its waste hauling business and continue to pay the
then-existing franchise fee of 11 percent for five years pursuant to Public
Resources Code 49520.   (Id. ¶ 11.)  During this period, Petitioner paid the 11
percent fee and never protested that it was as “tax.”  (Ibid.) 
It is undisputed that Petitioner never paid the new franchise fee of 15
percent.  (See Petition, OB, and Reply
generally.)  Accordingly, Petitioner has
not shown that it suffered, or continues to suffer, any injury from the
increase in the franchise fee from 11 percent to 15 percent.  
 
In
reply, Petitioner argues it has standing because “a successful resolution of
this action will benefit Petitioner because the scheme that wrongfully
terminated Petitioner’s hauler license would be invalidated.”  (Reply 3.) 
This argument is circular and unpersuasive.  Petitioner challenges the new waste hauler
scheme on the grounds that the increase in the franchise fee from 11 percent to
15 percent in Resolution 18-133 constitutes a tax that required approval by the
voters.  However, Petitioner does not
otherwise challenge the City’s transition to a semi-exclusive franchise
agreement model.  Any economic injury
allegedly suffered by Petitioner is the result of its failure to qualify as one
of the most responsive bidders in connection with the RFP issued by the City
for the semi-exclusive franchise agreement model, not because of
the increase in the franchise fee.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner
lacks standing to prosecute its writ claims. 
Therefore, the writ is denied on this basis. 
 
C.        
Petitioner’s Claim is Untimely
 
            In
the alternative, the court finds that Petitioner’s challenge to Resolution
18-133, which increased the hauler’s license fee from 11 percent to 15 percent,
is untimely.  Petitioner seeks to enforce
the “publication/posting” requirements of Government Code sections 36933 and
36936.1.  (OB 4-6.)  Petitioner also seeks to enforce the City’s
obligations under Propositions 218 and 26 and California Constitution, Article
XIII C, section 2, to submit an alleged franchise tax to a public vote.  (See Pet. ¶¶ 19-21; OB 6-11.)  “The statute of limitations applicable to a
writ of mandamus under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1085 depends
upon the nature of the obligation sought to be enforced.”  (Ragan v. City of Hawthorne (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 1361, 1367.)  Petitioner seeks
to enforce obligations created by statute. 
(See Peles
v. La
Bounty (1979) 90 Cal.App.3d 431, 435.) 
Accordingly, a three-year statute of limitations
applies.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
338(a).)  
 
“[T]he statute of limitations in a
mandamus proceeding ‘begins to run when the [petitioner’s] right first
accrues.’”  (Monroe v. Trustees of the
California State Colleges (1971) 6 Cal.3d 399, 405.)  Resolution 18-133 approved the execution
of Semi-Exclusive Agreements for Commercial Refuse and Recycling Services with
eight companies—not including Petitioner— and
adjusted the City’s hauler license fee from 11 percent to 15 percent.  (RJN Exh. C.) 
Accordingly, Petitioner suffered appreciable injury and its cause of
action accrued no later than October 2, 2018, when Resolution 18-133 was
adopted.  Petitioner
filed this action on April 20, 2023, over four years later.  Accordingly, Petitioner’s claims are time-barred by the three-year statute of limitations in
section 338(a).[2]  
 
Petitioner
argues that “the City’s failure to comply with the constitution restarts the
statute of limitations upon each tax collection,” citing Howard Jarvis
Taxpayers Ass’n v. City of La Habra (2001) 25 Cal.4th 809.  (Reply 3.) 
In relevant part, Howard Jarvis states: 
 
[W]e hold only
that, where the three-year limitations period for actions on a liability
created by statute (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (a)) applies, and no
other statute or constitutional rule provides differently, the validity of a
tax measure may be challenged within the statutory period after any collection
of the tax, regardless of whether more than three years have passed since the
tax measure was adopted…. [O]ur holding relates only to injuries
occurring in the statutory three-year period before suit is brought and applies
only to plaintiffs injured by tax collections within the three-year period.
 
(Id.
at 825.)  As discussed, Petitioner never
paid the additional tax, so Petitioner would not benefit from this
holding.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s
petition for writ of mandate is untimely. 
Therefore, the writ is denied on this basis.  The court need not address Respondent’s
remaining procedural argument, that Petitioner failed to join necessary and
indispensable parties.   
 
            D.        The Petition for Writ of Mandate is
Denied on the Merits 
 
                        1.         The publication/posting requirements do
not apply to Resolution 18-21
            
            Petitioner
argues that the City did not comply with the publication/posting requirement of
Government Code section 36933.  That
statute states, in relevant part:
 
Within 15 days after its passage, the city clerk shall cause
each ordinance to be published at least once, with the names of those city
council members voting for and against the ordinance, in a newspaper of general
circulation published and circulated in the city, or if there is none,
he or she shall cause it to be posted in at least three public places
in the city or published in a newspaper of general circulation printed and
published in the county and circulated in the city. In cities incorporated less
than one year, the city council may determine whether ordinances are to be
published or posted. Ordinances shall not be published in a newspaper if the
charge exceeds the customary rate charged by the newspaper for publication of
private legal notices, but these ordinances shall be posted in the
manner and at the time required by this section. . . .  Except as provided in Section
36937, an ordinance shall not take effect
or be valid unless it is published or posted in substantially the manner and at
the time required by this section.
 
(Gov. Code § 36933(a), (b).)  However, this applies only “[w]here the tax
rate or the amount of revenue required to be raised by taxation is fixed by
resolution . . . .”  (Gov. Code §
36936.1.)   Although Resolution
18-21 authorized
the staff to “require all haulers to pay a hauler license fee,” the resolution
did not specify the amount of the license fee or establish any amount of
revenue required to be raised by the license fee.  (RJN Exh. A.) 
Accordingly, Respondent was not required to comply with the publication/posting requirements of section 36933 for
Resolution 18-21.  
 
                        2.         Petitioner demonstrates no violation
regarding Ordinance 695 
 
Ordinance
695 repealed, revised, and replaced Chapter 6.06 (Garbage and Refuse) of Title
6 (Health and Sanitation) of the Municipal Code in 2018.  (RJN Exh. B.) 
However, Ordinance 695 did not set or specify the percentage to be paid
for hauler fees. (Ibid.)  As
discussed, this fee was established in or before 2010.  Accordingly, Ordinance 695 was not subject to
the publication/posting requirement of Government Code section 36933.  Regardless, Petitioner does not develop any
argument that Respondent failed to comply with these requirements with respect
to Ordinance 695.  Petitioner merely
argues that “City failed to publish or post Resolutions 18-21 and 18-133.”  (OB 6.) 
In any event, Respondent submits evidence that it published Ordinance
695 in accordance with section 36933.  (See Oppo. 11 and Shumway Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Petitioner does not respond to this evidence
in reply.  (Reply 5; Sehulster Tunnel, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at 1345, fn. 16.)  Therefore, Petitioner has failed to satisfy
its burden of demonstrating that the City violated Government Code section
36933 with respect to Ordinance 695.  
 
            3.         The
increase in the hauler license fee is exempt from Article XIII C
 
Finally, the hauler license fee is
not a “tax,” so the City was not required to comply with the
publication/posting requirements of Government Code section 36933 or place the
issue on the ballot.  The California Constitution, Article XIII C,
generally provides that no local government “may impose, extend, or increase”
any general or special tax unless and until the tax is submitted to and
approved by the electorate. (Cal. Const., Art. XIII C, Sec. 2(b)-(d). Article
XIII C, Section 1 defines the term “tax” as “any levy, charge, or exaction”
imposed by a local government. (Cal. Const., Art. XIII C, Sec. 1(e).)
 
            This general definition of “tax” is
qualified by seven exemptions, including, as relevant to this writ petition,
the following:
 
(1) A charge imposed for a specific
benefit conferred or privilege granted directly to the payor that is not
provided to those not charged, and which does not exceed the reasonable costs
to the local government of conferring the benefit or granting the privilege. 
 
(4) A charge
imposed for entrance to or use of local government property, or the purchase,
rental, or lease of local government property.
 
“The
local government bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that a levy, charge, or other exaction is not a tax, that the amount is no more
than necessary to cover the reasonable costs of the governmental activity, and
that the manner in which those costs are allocated to a payor bear a fair or
reasonable relationship to the payor's burdens on, or benefits received from,
the governmental activity.”  (Cal.
Const., Art. XIII C, Sec. 1(e).)  Respondent
acknowledges that Resolution 18-133 increased the hauler license fee from 11
percent to 15 percent, but argues the fee is exempt under section 1(e)(4) and section
1(e)(1) of Article XIII C.  
            
                                    a.         Section 1(e)(4) – This section exempts
“[a] charge imposed for entrance to or use of local government property, or the
purchase, rental, or lease of local government property.”  In Zolly v. City of Oakland (2022) 13
Cal.5th 780, the California Supreme Court discussed this exemption at length in
the context of a demurrer filed by the City of Oakland to a complaint filed by
city taxpayers challenging franchise fees that two private waste haulers agreed
to pay for the right to “transact business, provide services, use the
public street and/or other public places, and to operate a public utility” for
waste collection services.  (Id. at
784.)  The Court held that Oakland had
not shown, on demurrer, that the fees were exempt under section 1(e)(4).  In relevant part, the Court reasoned: 
 
Oakland has not
demonstrated as a matter of law that the payors paid the challenged fees in
exchange for a specific use of government property that they would not
have enjoyed had they not paid the fee. The text of Exemption 4
supports such a fact-specific requirement by focusing on the actual benefit
exchanged between the payor and local government.  Exemption 4 does not use the term “franchise
fees”; instead, it exempts “[a] charge imposed for entrance to or use of local
government property.”  By describing the
qualitative rationale for the charge instead of using any formal labels, this
language indicates that the voters intended to exempt only those fees that
adhered to the rationale underlying that exemption—i.e., fees paid as
consideration for a specific use of government property.
 
[¶] 
 
So understood, Exemption 4’s “imposed for” language applies
naturally to traditional types of entrance and user fees for local
government property. For fees such as a park entrance fee, there is little
question that payment is a necessary condition for “entrance to or use of” the
property. (Art. XIII C, C, § 1,
subd. (e)(4).)  In
other words, entrance to or use of a public park, bridge, or other government
property is limited unless the entrance or user fee is paid.  Specific
kinds of franchise fees may also meet this requirement. In Jacks, for example, the utility had obtained a right
to “construct and use equipment along, over, and under” public roadways to
facilitate the distribution of electricity.  (Jacks, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 254, 219 Cal.Rptr.3d 859, 397 P.3d 210.)  By paying the franchise fee, the utility there
had gained a specific “use of local government property” beyond what was
otherwise available to the public (i.e., an easement to install equipment)….
 
Here, Oakland has yet to demonstrate
that the waste management providers gained any
“use of local government property” in exchange for their payment of the
challenged fees. (Art. XIII C, § 1, subd. (e)(4).)  Although the ordinances refer to the service
providers’ ability to “use the public street and/or other public places,” Oakland
has not established that this “use” means anything more than the generally
available prerogative to drive on public roads and rights-of-way.…
Counsel for Oakland suggested during oral argument that the waste haulers may
have attained the special ability to drive heavy vehicles and to place waste
receptacles on Oakland’s streets, but these statements by counsel are not
evidence and do not amount to an admission or stipulation of fact…. Because
there is a factual question as to whether the challenged fees were paid as
consideration for a special “use of local government property” within the
meaning of article XIII C, the applicability of Exemption 4’s first clause
cannot be resolved in Oakland's favor on demurrer.
 
(Id. at 794-796, emphasis added.)
 
            By contrast, in the instant case, Respondent relies on
the declaration of Gina Nila, the City’s Deputy Director of Public Works
Operations, which makes clear that the hauler license fees entitles the haulers
to “specific
use of government property that they would not have enjoyed had they not paid
the fee.”  In relevant part, Nila declares: 
 
The Semi-Exclusive Agreements for Commercial
Refuse and Recycling Services granted to the successful bidders received the
privilege to use the City’s public streets which are unique and not available
to the general public.  These privileges
to use the public streets include, but are not limited to, the following types
of uses: (1) refuse pickups which requires slow moving trucks which are not a
normal and usual use of the streets; (2) slow moving, and frequent stops are
allowed to … trucks which are not allowed to other traffic on the streets; (3)
the operations of the trash trucks impedes normal flow of traffic which is a
privilege granted by the franchise, not allowed by other users of the streets;
and (4) the heavy loads of the trucks causes additional wear and tear on the
streets not associated with general traffic. 
The Commercial Municipal Code [section 6.11.080] further provides, in relevant part,
that no person ‘shall collect, carry, convey or transport refuse on or through
any street, alley or public place in the city’ except for City employees or an
employee of an authorized contractor/licensee of the City.
 
(Nila Decl. ¶ 8 and Exh.
C.)  Nila’s declaration is corroborated, in
part, by the October 2, 2018, City Council staff report, which outlines the
process by which City solicited proposals from existing licensed refuse haulers
for both refuse and recycling services.  (Id.
¶ 9, Exh. D.)  
            
            Petitioner has not refuted this
evidence in any way.  With the opening
brief, Petitioner submits a declaration of its attorney, Thomas Nitti, who
attended the City’ public meetings in 2018 that discussed Resolution 18-21,
Ordinance 695, and Resolution 18-133. 
Nitti declares: 
 
There was no
public discussion or analysis at the meetings or in any of the public reports
regarding the raising of the waste hauler tax from 11% to 15% in Resolution
18-133. From my observations of the public record, the raise from 11% to 15%
tax was arbitrary, and there was no evidence that the imposed tax was no more
than necessary to cover the reasonable costs of the governmental activity.
 
(Nitti
Decl. ¶ 4.)  Nitti’s declaration does not
provide any response to the evidence that Resolution 18-133 increased the
licensee fee as part of bidding process that awarded Semi-Exclusive Agreements
for Commercial Refuse and Recycling Services in exchange for the right to collect,
carry, and transport refuse and recycling materials on City streets.  
 
In
reply, Petitioner also did not rebut City’s evidence.  Rather, Petitioner argues that, in Zolly,
“the Supreme Court correctly interpreted Exemption 4 to apply to admission fees
to the traditional meaning of government property, i.e. city parks.”  (Reply 8.) 
The Court’s decision was not so limited. 
Rather, in ruling on a demurrer, the Court held that Oakland had not
shown, as a matter of law, that the “waste management providers gained any ‘use of
local government property’ in exchange for their payment of the challenged fees.”  The Court also indicated that there was a
“factual question as to whether the challenged fees were paid as consideration
for a special ‘use of local government property’ within the meaning of article
XIII C.”  (Zolly, supra, 13
Cal.5th at 794-796.)  The Court did not
rule out the possibility that, depending on the facts, waste hauling licensee
fees could be exempt under section 1(e)(4) if they were paid as consideration
for a privilege that the general public would not receive, e.g., the
right to drive slower than otherwise permissible; the right to make frequent
stops not otherwise allowed; the right to impede the normal flow of traffic; the
right to operate heavier vehicles; and the right to conduct business activities
not permissible to the general public.  
 
            Petitioner
also argues that “City has not made any showing that the waste providers use
the roadways in an entirely different capacity than all other drivers, such as
the permanent use of the street for utility equipment such as the permanent
installation of telephone and electricity poles.”  (Reply 8.) 
However, as noted, Respondent submits evidence that the Semi-Exclusive
Agreements for Commercial Refuse and Recycling Services grant unique privileges
to the waste haulers to operate slow-moving, heavy, and frequently stopping
vehicles on City streets and that such privileges are not available to other persons
or entities that operate vehicles in the City. 
(Nila Decl. ¶ 8.)  Moreover, the
hauler license fee permits the haulers to collect refuse, which is prohibited
by members of the general public. 
Specifically, Municipal Code section 6.11.080 states that “No person
shall collect, carry, convey or transport refuse on or through any street,
alley or public place in the city, except: (1) A person who is an employee of
the city; [and] (2) An employee of an authorized contractor/licensee of the
city.”  (Id. Exh. C.)  Petitioner does not respond to this evidence,
which supports Respondent’s position that the license fees at issue were imposed
by City in exchange for special privileges not available to members of the
general public.  
 
                                    b.         Section 1(e)(1) – This section exempts
“[a] charge
imposed for a specific benefit conferred or privilege granted directly to the
payor that is not provided to those not charged, and which does not exceed the
reasonable costs to the local government of conferring the benefit or granting
the privilege.”  As discussed, the hauler
license fees convey a benefit or privilege to the haulers that is not provided
to members of the general public.  
 
            Petitioner argues that the increase from 11 percent to 15
percent was
“arbitrary” and “more than necessary to cover the reasonable cost of the City’s
activity.”  (OB 10.)  In Jacks v. City of Santa Barbara (2017)
3 Cal.5th 248, the Supreme Court considered whether a surcharge on electricity
bills collected by the utility and remitted to the city was an invalid tax
imposed without voter approval.  The
Court held that “to constitute a valid franchise fee under Proposition 218, the
amount of the franchise fee must bear a reasonable relationship to the value of
the property interests transferred.” (Id., at 270.)  Jacks was based on a surcharge imposed
prior to the adoption of Proposition 26 in 2010, which added the seven
exemptions to Article XIII C.  In that
respect, Jacks is not directly on point. 
Nonetheless, neither Petitioner nor Respondent has cited a published
appellate decision interpreting exemption 1(e)(1) and that is directly
applicable.  In that context, Jacks provides
the following guidance relevant to this case: 

 
We recognize that determining the
value of a franchise may present difficulties. Unlike the cost of providing a
government improvement or program, which may be calculated based on the expense
of the personnel and materials used to perform the service or regulation, the
value of property may vary greatly, depending on market forces and
negotiations. Where a utility has an incentive to negotiate a lower fee, the
negotiated fee may reflect the value of the franchise rights, just as the
negotiated rent paid by the lessor of a publicly owned building reflects its
market value, despite the fact that a different lessor might have negotiated a
different rental rate. In the absence of bona fide negotiations, however, or in
addition to such negotiations, an agency may look to other indicia of value to
establish a reasonable value of franchise rights.
 
In sum, a franchise fee must be
based on the value of the franchise conveyed in order to come within the
rationale for its imposition without approval of the voters. Its value may be
based on bona fide negotiations concerning the property's value, as well as
other indicia of worth.
 
(Id. at
270.)  
 
Here,
in the recitals to Resolution 18-133, Respondent explained that “since the
hauler fee has not been increased since 2010, staff also recommends adjusting
the hauler license fee from 11% to 15% of gross receipts for all licensed
haulers operating in the City.”  (RJN
Exh. C.)  In her declaration, Nila
states, on information and belief, that “an increase to 15% was determined to
be appropriate based on a survey of the average hauler fees being charged by
other cities.”  (Nila Decl. ¶ 9.)  She also declares, on information and belief,
that “the 15% fee represents the fair market value of the rights and privileges
enjoyed by the new franchisees.” 
(Ibid.)  As support, Nila
authenticates the October 2, 2018, City Council staff report, which states in
pertinent part: “Also, since the hauler license fee of 11% on gross receipts
has not been increased since 2010 and the average fees among cities ranges from
15% to 20%, staff also recommends increasing the fee to 15% applicable to all
licensed haulers…. FISCAL IMPACT: The increase in hauler fees from 11% to 15%
of gross receipts is expected to generate $250,000 - $275,000 in additional
revenue annually.”  (Id. Exh. D.)  Petitioner does not refute this evidence,
which suggests that the 15 percent hauler license fee constitutes a fair value
for the license.  
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court finds that the City’s hauler license fee is
exempt from Article XIII C pursuant to section 1(e)(4) and section 1(e)(1).  Accordingly, Respondent was not required to
comply with the publication/posting requirements of Government Code section
36933 with respect to Resolution 18-133. 

 
E.         The Court Rules in Favor of Respondent
on the First Cause of Action 
 
Petitioner’s
first cause of action is for declaratory relief, and the claim is duplicative
of its petition for writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.  A declaratory relief action is inappropriate
when a plaintiff has an adequate remedy on other causes of action at
trial.  (See Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California
Ins. Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617,
1624.)  
 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
 
(General
of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)  The Court has discretion to decline to issue
a declaratory judgment under these circumstances.  (See AICCO, Inc. v. Insurance Company of
North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579, 590.)  In the alternative, the court rules in favor
of Respondent, and against Petitioner, for the reasons stated.  
 


 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
court denies the petition for writ of mandate because: (1) Petitioner lacks
standing; (2) The claim is untimely, (3) The
publication/posting requirements do not apply to Resolution 18-21; (4)
Petitioner does not demonstrate any violation regarding Ordinance 695; and (5)
Respondent demonstrates that the increase in the hauler license fee is exempt
from Article XIII C.  
 
            2.         The court declines to issue a
declaratory judgment on the first cause of action.  In the alternative, the court issues a
declaratory judgment in favor of Respondent, and against Petitioner, for the
reasons stated.
 
            3.         The court lifts the stay on the second,
third, and fourth causes of action.  
 
            4.         Because these causes of action are
unrelated to the petition for writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085, the court transfers this case to Department One for reassignment
to an independent calendar court. 
 
            5.         Pursuant to the “one judgment rule,” Respondent
shall lodge a judgment at the conclusion of the case.
 
            6.         Respondent’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of service with the court.  
            
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: May 8, 2024                                                                ___________________________
                                                                                                Stephen
I. Goorvitch 
                                                                                                Superior
Court Judge 


