 Case Number:  23STCP00843    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  82 Atlas Capital Management, Inc.,
et al. v. Office of Administrative Hearings, et al.
Case No. 23STCP00843
Court’s Order Sustaining
Respondents’ Demurrer without Leave to Amend 
 
INTRODUCTION

 
            Petitioners Atlas Capital
Management, Inc. (“Atlas”) and Tracy Dennis Towner (collectively, “Petitioners”)
filed a verified petition for writ of mandate and a complaint for declaratory
relief against the Office of Administrative Hearings (the “OAH”) and Clothilde
V. Hewlett in her official capacity as Commissioner of the Department of
Financial Protection and Innovation of the State of California (the “Commissioner”
or the “DFPI”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 
Atlas, an investment adviser, filed a Form ADV-W to withdraw its
investment adviser registration as part of its plan to cease operations.  However, the DFPI issued an order refusing to
accept the surrender until it had finished its investigation of Atlas for
alleged fraud, as well as any enforcement action.  Petitioners seek a writ of mandate directing
the DFPI to annul the surrender order and dismiss its enforcement action
against Petitioners for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, among other things.  Petitioners also seek a declaratory judgment
that certain documents and records gathered in the DFPI’s investigation relating
to Towner, Atlas’s owner and a peace officer, are “confidential peace officer
records” and shall be excluded from the DPFI’s action, among other things.  The court (Beckloff, J.) previously sustained
Respondents’ demurrer with leave to amend. 
Now, this court sustains Respondents’ demurrer without leave to
amend.  
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND 
 
            Petitioners allege as follows in
their amended verified petition for writ of mandate: At all relevant times,
Atlas was an “investment adviser,” as defined by the Corporate Securities Law
of 1968 and held an investment adviser certificate under Corporations Code
sections 25230 and 25231.  (First Amended
Petition for Writ of Mandate (“FAP”), ¶ 10.) 
Atlas received its investment adviser certificate on or about September
12, 1997.  (Ibid.)  Atlas filed a Form ADV-W—Notice of Withdrawal
from Registration as an Investment Adviser—on June 3, 2022.  (Ibid.) 
Atlas was co-owned and principally operated by Craig Arsenault between
September 12, 1997, and December 31, 2018. 
(Id., ¶ 21.)  Petitioner Tracy
Dennis Towner was a co-owner of Altas, and acted as a “silent partner,” until
he became the sole owner December 31, 2018. 
(Ibid.)  Towner was a peace
officer and worked as an investigator for the Ventura County District
Attorney’s Office until he was terminated on April 23, 2018.  (Id., ¶¶ 8, 19.)
 
            On December 13, 2018, the SEC filed a
complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California
concerning alleged fraud by Arsenault and the two entities he founded, managed,
and controlled, Atlas and another entity, ACT Global Investments (“ACT”).  (Id., ¶ 21.) 
The SEC alleged that Arsenault misrepresented the use of investors’
funds in the ACT fund, provided clients with deceptive account statements that
made it appear as if these investments were generating substantial income when
they were not, and misappropriated and misused over $1 million of the client
money invested with ACT.  (Ibid.)  Atlas consented to entry of judgment without
admitting or denying the allegations. 
(Ibid.)  
 
            In August 2019, the DFPI commenced a
regulatory examination of Atlas’s investment adviser business.  (Id., ¶¶ 29-30.)  On June 9, 2020, the examiners referred the
alleged violations to the DFPI’s enforcement division and reserved the right to
proceed with all remedies as outlined in Corporations Code section 25255, with
the civil, criminal, or administrative remedies thereunder.  (Petition for Writ of Mandate, ¶ 24.)  On April 4, 2022, after multiple attempts to
reach a negotiated resolution of the alleged violations by Atlas, Atlas
notified its clients, the DFPI, and the public that it intended to “wind down
its business due to the substantial legal expenses and exposure remaining as a
result of Arsenault and his actions . . . .” 
(FAP, ¶ 45.)  On June 3, 2022,
Atlas filed its Form ADV-W to surrender Atlas’s investment adviser certificate
and withdraw its investment adviser registration with the State of California
and the DFPI.  (Id., ¶ 46.)  The DFPI refused to accept the surrender.  (Id., ¶ 47.) 
The DFPI issued an order (the “Surrender Order”) under Corporations Code
section 25242(a) stating in relevant part:
 
            Pursuant
to Section 25242(a) of the California Corporations Code, withdrawal becomes
effective at such time and upon such conditions as the Commissioner by order
determines.  The Commissioner hereby
imposes the following conditions . . . . 
The surrender of the Investment Adviser shall not be accepted until the
Commissioner has finished its review, examination, and investigation of Atlas
Capital Management, Inc. and until the Commissioner makes a determination
and/or initiates an action . . . .
 
(Ibid.)  
 
            The DFPI initiated an enforcement
action by serving petitioners with an “accusation” and a “desist and cease
order” on November 3, 2022.  (Id., ¶
48.)  Petitioner filed a defense to the
accusation, and the administrative proceeding is pending before the Office of
Administrative Hearings.  (Id., ¶¶
49-66.)  
 
            Petitioners allege that the DFPI has
acquired “privileged, confidential peace officer personnel records” concerning
Tower from his former employer, the Ventura County District Attorney’s Office
(the “DA’s Office”).  (Id., ¶ 1.)  Towner was terminated on April 23, 2018,
allegedly in retaliation for providing testimony in a colleague’s challenge to
the DA’s Office’s promotional process before the County of Ventura’s Civil
Service Commission.  (Id., ¶ 19.)  Towner alleges that the DA’s Office continued
to retaliate against him by directing the DFPI to “engage in a targeted
enforcement action.”  (Id., ¶ 3.)  Towner alleges that the DFPI filed the
enforcement action to earn “goodwill with the Ventura County DA’s Office.”  (Id., ¶ 2.) 

 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY 
 
            Petitioners filed their verified
petition for writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory relief on March 16,
2023.  In the initial petition,
Petitioner asserted four causes of action: (1) Writ of mandate under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5, (2) Writ of mandate under Code of Civil
Procedure section 1085, (3) Declaratory relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1060, and (4) Declaratory relief under Corporations Code section 25242,
per section 1060, or under Code of Civil Procedure section 11350.  Petitioners sought a writ and declaratory
judgment requiring Respondent to accept the surrender of Atlas’s investment
adviser certificate and to stop enforcement proceedings.  Petitioners also challenged certain decisions
made by the administrative law judge (the “ALJ”) during the enforcement
proceedings.
 
            The court (Beckloff, J.) sustained
Respondent’s demurrer.  (See Court’s
Order, dated August 4, 2023.)  Judge
Beckloff found that this petition is governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5, not section 1085.  (Id.
at 4 fn. 1.)  Judge Beckloff found that
Petitioners failed to exhaust their administrative remedies, and that none of
the exceptions apply.  (Id. at
6-10.)  The court found no prejudicial
abuse of discretion by the ALJ in issuing a discovery order, e.g., “the
Discovery Order makes clear that the [attorney-client] privilege waiver applies
only ‘to the extent’ Petitioners intend to rely on their former counsel’s
advice to defend the accusation.  The
Discovery Order is thus consistent with law.” 
(Id. at 4, citations omitted.)  Judge
Beckloff also sustained the demurrer to the declaratory relief causes of action
for the same reasons.  (Id. at 10.)  Judge Beckloff reluctantly granted leave to
amend:
 
“Candidly,
until the administrative proceedings have concluded, this petition appears
premature.  It also appears until the
administrative proceedings have concluded, it is not possible to determine
whether Petitioners can state a claim under Code of Civil Procedure section
1094.5.  It would appear Petitioners
should renew their efforts, if necessary, after the administrative proceedings
have concluded.  Nonetheless, this is the
court’s first ruling on demurrer and Petitioners have not previously amended the
petition in response to a demurrer. . . . 
It seems at least possible Petitioners could allege additional facts regarding
exceptions to exhaustion.  Petitioners
also could plausible allege additional facts relating to enforcement of the
Discovery Order that may be relevant to the first cause of action.  Accordingly, the court will grant leave to
amend.”
 
(Id.
at 10-11.)    
 
            Petitioners filed a first amended
petition asserting the following causes of action: (1) Petition for writ of
mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 with respect to the
Respondent’s failure to accept Atlas’s surrender of its investment adviser
certificate; (2) Petition for writ of mandate under section 1085 or, in the
alternative, under section 1094.5 with respect to Respondent’s decision to name
Tracy Dennis Towner as a defendant in the enforcement action; (3) Petition for
writ of mandate under section 1094.5 concerning the ALJ’s decision to exclude
“critical, material and relevant evidence;” (4) Declaratory relief under
Corporations Code section 25242, per section 1060; (5) Declaratory relief under
Corporations Code section 25403, per section 1060; (6) Declaratory relief under
section 1060 concerning an alleged violation of the statutes governing peace
officer personnel records; (7) Declaratory relief under section 1060 concerning
Petitioners’ right to a jury trial; and (8) Violation of Petitioners’ civil
rights under Title 42, United States Code, section 1983.  Respondents now demur to all causes of
action. 
 
STANDARD
OF REVIEW 
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the
pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil Proc. § 430.30,
subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “We assume the truth of
the allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.) 
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.”  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  The allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of
Petitioner on demurrer.  (See Mobil
Oil Corp. v Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.)  “A demurrer must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Exhaustion
of Administrative Remedies 
 
            As an initial matter, Respondents
argue that the entire first amended petition is barred because Petitioners have
not exhausted their administrative remedies. 
Exhaustion of administrative remedies is “a jurisdictional prerequisite
to judicial review.”  (California Water Impact Network v. Newhall County
Water Dist. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.)  “Before seeking judicial review a party must
show that he has made a full presentation to the administrative agency upon all
issues of the case and at all prescribed
stages of the administrative proceedings.”  (Edgren
v. Regents of University of California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515,
520.)  Generally, “the exhaustion
doctrine precludes review of an intermediate or interlocutory action of an
administrative agency.  A party must
proceed through the full administrative process ‘to a final decision on the
merits.’”  (Alta Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On
School District Reorganization (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554.)  
 
“The principal purposes of exhaustion requirements include
avoidance of premature interruption of administrative processes, allowing an
agency to develop the necessary factual background of the case, letting the
agency apply its expertise and exercise its statutory discretion, and
administrative efficiency and judicial economy.”  (California Water Impact Network, supra, 161 Cal.App.4th at 1489.)  There are exceptions to the exhaustion
requirement, however, including “when the subject of the controversy lies
outside the administrative agency’s jurisdiction, when pursuit of an
administrative remedy would result in irreparable harm, when the administrative
agency cannot grant an adequate remedy, and when the aggrieved party can
positively state what the administrative agency’s decision in his
particular case would be.”  (Edgren,
supra, 158 Cal.App.3d at 520 [citations omitted].)  
 
A.        First Cause of Action 
 
            In the first cause of action,
Petitioners challenge Respondent’s decision not to accept Atlas’s surrender of
its investment adviser certificate and to institute enforcement proceedings.  Petitioners allege that Atlas surrendered its
investment adviser certificate on June 3, 2022; Respondent issued the Surrender
Order on June 14, 2022; and Respondent initiated the enforcement action on
November 3, 2022.  Petitioners argue that
this falls outside the scope of Respondents’ authority under Corporations Code
section 25242, subdivision (a).
 
            Petitioners argue that they are not required to exhaust
administrative remedies with respect to this claim.  To the contrary.  Judge Beckloff previously found: “Respondent
also argues Petitioners’ interpretation of Corporations Code section 25242,
subdivision (a) is incorrect.  The court
agrees Petitioners have failed to exhaust their administrative remedies.  The court need not, therefore, reach the
interpretation issue.”  (See Court’s
Order, dated August 4, 2023, at 7.)  In
their first amended petition, Petitioners do not allege new facts to address
this issue.  Instead, Petitioners
essentially argue that Judge Beckloff was incorrect.  This court will not revisit Judge Beckloff’s
decision.  “The exhaustion requirement
applies whether relief is sought by traditional (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1085) or administrative (Code Civ. Proc., §
1094.5) mandamus.”  (Eight
Unnamed Physicians v. Medical Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503,
511.)  
 
In the first cause of action,
Petitioners allege, in effect, that the Commissioner lacked authority under
Corporations Code section 25242 to issue the June 14, 2022, Order, which
refused Atlas’ surrender of its investment adviser certificate.  (FAP ¶¶ 67-83.)  If the Commissioner lacked authority to
refuse the surrender, then Commissioner would also lack authority in the
Accusation to revoke Atlas’ certificate. 
Thus, Petitioners’ allegation related to Corporations Code section 25242
presents an affirmative defense to the Accusation, which seeks revocation of
Atlas’ certificate.  Petitioners develop
no argument to the contrary in the petition or opposition.  Petitioners have an administrative remedy to
raise this defense in the OAH proceedings. 
Accordingly, Petitioners do not allege exhaustion of administrative
remedies with respect to the claim presented in the first cause of action. (See
Coachella Valley Mosquito & Vector Control Dist. v. California Public
Employment Relations Bd. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1072, 1080 [“The exhaustion
requirement applies to defenses as well as to claims for affirmative
relief”].)  
 
            Petitioner argues that the
exhaustion requirement does not apply in the instant case, citing       Hill
RHF Housing Partners, L.P. v. City of Los Angeles (2021) 12 Cal.5th 458.  In that case, the California Supreme Court
held that
the “opportunity to comment on a proposed BID [business improvement district]
does not involve the sort of ‘clearly defined machinery for the submission,
evaluation and resolution of complaints by aggrieved parties’ that has
allowed us to infer an exhaustion requirement in other contexts.”  (Id. at 468.)  By contrast, the OAH proceeding involves
“clearly defined machinery” for the submission of defenses to the
Accusation.  The petition alleges no
facts supporting a conclusion that Petitioners could not present their
contentions related to section 25242 as a defense in the OAH proceeding.  (See FAP ¶ 69.)  
 
            Nor
do Petitioners allege sufficient facts or cite sufficient authority suggesting
that there is an exception to the exhaustion requirement in this case.  The court will examine each potential
exception separately.
 
                        1.         Lack of Jurisdiction 
 
Petitioners
argue that OAH lacks jurisdiction over the Accusation, and specifically
Petitioners’ contentions regarding the Surrender Order, pursuant to
Corporations Code section 25609.  (FAP ¶
15.)  “In deciding whether to entertain a
claim that an agency lacks jurisdiction before the agency proceedings have run
their course, a court considers three factors: the injury or burden that
exhaustion will impose, the strength of the legal argument that the agency
lacks jurisdiction, and the extent to which administrative expertise may aid in
resolving the jurisdictional issue.”  (Coachella,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at 1082.) 
Petitioners do not sufficiently address those factors in the FAP.  Corporations
Code section 25609 states: “Every final order, decision, license, or other
official act of the commissioner is subject to judicial review in accordance
with law.”  Here, the Surrender Order was
arguably superseded once DFPI filed the Accusation against Petitioners.  Moreover, even if the Surrender Order was a
“final order” subject to judicial review under section 25609 when it was issued
in June 2022, Petitioners do not explain why that would deprive OAH of
jurisdiction to decide Petitioners’ affirmative defense based on section 25242
once the Accusation was filed.[1]  
 
Petitioners
also contend that “OAH already found that the Surrender Order lies outside of
its jurisdiction based on the record.” 
(Oppo. 12.)  The cited order
simply denied Petitioners’ request “to prepare the complete record of
proceedings relating to its order dated June 14, 2022.”  (Pet. Exh. E.)  The OAH found it had no authority to require
the Department to prepare such a record. 
Petitioners do not allege sufficient facts to support a different
interpretation of OAH’s order.   
 
            2.         Irreparable
Harm 
 
Petitioners
suggest that the pendency of the DFPI action, in itself, causes irreparable
harm to Towner’s reputation as an investigator and his employment with
VCDA.  (FAP ¶ 69.)[2]  Specifically, Petitioners allege:
 
“[T]he
outstanding DFPI Action poses irreparable harm and injury to [Towners’] over 35
year career, impacts his ability to testify in actions related to his role at
VCDA and threatens his employment with VCDA as an adverse finding would be a
terminable offense pursuant to the VCDA Bureau of Investigation Manual as well
as the considerable legal expenses incurred in continuing the DFPI Action
through a flawed record and eventual appeal.” 

 
(FAP ¶¶ 69, 97, 109.)  This does not qualify for an exemption.  “An exception to the requirement of
exhaustion of administrative remedies may arise where one can show that
irreparable injury will result if an administrative hearing is permitted to
proceed and its orders are made effective without prior judicial interference.”  (Kaiser Foundation Hospitals v. Sup.Ct. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 85, 105.)  “Thus, to show
irreparable harm justifying an exception from the exhaustion requirement,
[Petitioners] must show harm that will irreparably result if the administrative
process, rather than the court action, is allowed to go forward.”  (Ibid.) 
Petitioners do not explain how the alleged harm to Towner from the
pendency of the Accusation would be materially different if the exhaustion
requirement were excused.  Furthermore,
Petitioners’ allegations of how Towner would be irreparably harmed are
conclusory and insufficient to state an excuse from exhaustion.  (FAP ¶ 69.)
 
Petitioners
seek to assert an excuse from exhaustion on the grounds that “DFPI delayed its
action in bringing the Accusation.”  (FAP
¶ 69.)  Petitioners could raise laches or
delay as a defense in the administrative proceedings.  In any event, Petitioners have not alleged
sufficient facts to support a claim of irreparable harm as a result of delay in
filing the Accusation.  “A
remedy will not be deemed inadequate merely because additional time and effort
would be consumed by its being pursued through the ordinary course of the
law.”  (Eight Unnamed Physicians v.
Medical Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503, 515, citations and
alterations omitted.)  Similarly,
“litigation expenses, however substantial and nonrecoverable, which are normal
incidents of participation in the agency process do not constitute irreparable
injury.”  (Ibid. [citation omitted].)  Thus, Petitioners do not establish any
irreparable harm that would excuse the exhaustion requirement.  
 
            c.         Futility 
 
Petitioners
attempt to invoke the futility exception on the grounds that “DFPI has declared
its ruling by the issuance and terms of the Surrender Order that demonstrates
it is has predetermined its jurisdiction and no other agency has jurisdiction
to disclaim.”  (FAP ¶ 69.)  Futility is a narrow
exception to the exhaustion requirement and does not apply unless a “petitioner
can positively state that the commission has declared what its ruling will be
in a particular case….”  (Sea &
Sage Audobon Society, Inc. v. Planning Comm. (1983) 34 Cal. 3d 412,
418.)  “For the futility exception to
apply, it is not sufficient that a party can show what the agency’s ruling
would be on a particular issue or defense.”  (Coachella Valley v. Cal. Public
Employment Relations Bd. (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 1072, 1081.)  Petitioners have not alleged that OAH has
declined jurisdiction over an affirmative defense based on section 25242 or
that OAH has declared what its ruling would be related to such defense.  That the Department has made its position
clear is not sufficient to excuse Petitioners’ obligation to exhaust their
administrative remedies before OAH.
 
                        d.         Other Considerations  
 
            The court has considered
Petitioners’ remaining arguments, and none warrant an exception to the
exhaustion requirement.  There are
legitimate reasons for the exhaustion requirements.  In addition to developing a complete factual
record before this court, which sits as a quasi-appellate court, administrative
expertise may aid in resolving Petitioners’ contentions related to the
Surrender Order and section 25242, as well as developing a factual record for
judicial review.  Significantly, “[e]ven
where the statute sought to be applied and enforced by the administrative
agency is challenged upon constitutional grounds, completion of the
administrative remedy has been held a prerequisite to equitable relief.”  (Service Employees Internat. Union, Local
1000 v. Department of Personnel Admin. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 866, 871.)  
 
                        3.         Conclusion 
 
            The
court finds that Petitioners have not exhausted their administrative remedies,
as required to assert the first cause of action.  The court finds that Petitioners’ have not
alleged sufficient facts or cited sufficient legal authority to establish an
exception to this requirement. 
Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to the first cause of
action.  
 
            B.        Second Cause of Action 
 
            In the second cause of action,
Petitioners allege that it was improper for Respondent to name Towner in the
Accusation because “[t]here is no statutory authority, express or implied,
permitting DFPI to institute a proceeding to revoke the license or certificate
of Towner as an Investment Adviser Representative.”  (FAP ¶ 87.) 
Towner has not exhausted his administrative remedies, viz., he can argue
at the administrative hearing that he is not a proper party to this
action.  This issue does not implicate a
jurisdictional issue that might qualify for an exception to the exhaustion
requirement, and even if so, Petitioners do not establish that they are
entitled to relief under the Coachella factors. 
Nor do Petitioners establish any other exception to the exhaustion
requirement for the reasons stated. 
Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of
action.   
 
            C.        Third
Cause of Action 
 
In the third cause of action, Petitioners
seek to raise an interlocutory challenge to the ALJ’s procedures and rulings in
three respects.  First, Petitioners
allege that “the ALJ has excluded critical, material and relevant evidence not
only that are necessary elements of the violations alleged by DFPI, including
its necessary finding of ‘public interest,’ but also necessary to develop an
administrative record for subsequent judicial review.”  (FAP ¶¶ 105, 107.)  Petitioners allege that the ALJ ruled on Respondent’s
“last-minute Motion in Limine that excluded a significant amount of evidence
that was material to the Petitioners’ pre-planned case in chief, affirmative
defenses and critically, the only documents related to required showing of
‘public interest,’ based on DFPI’s representations that such were ‘the
inadvertent disclosure of the attorney-client privilege, work-product,
privileged communications.’”  (FAP ¶ 51;
see also Id. ¶¶ 52-59.)   Second, Petitioners
allege that “the ALJ has repeatedly refused to issue written rulings that would
have clarified and avoided this particular cause of action.”  (Id. ¶ 106.) 
Petitioners allege that they “have requested that the ALJ memorialize
his oral rulings as required by the OAH regulations, including and in
particular, those continually expanding views on excluded documents under
DFPI’s motion in limine.”  (FAP ¶
23.)  Petitioners allege that “[t]he
repeated refusal to issue written rulings despite numerous written and oral
requests of Petitioners, results in a completely flawed record and makes the
purpose of exhaustion futile.”  (Id. ¶
61.)  Finally, Petitioners allege that
the ALJ ruled that Petitioners’ “arguments that adjudicating this matter as an
administrative proceeding deprives respondents of their Constitutional rights
are not appropriately addressed in a motion to disqualify an ALJ; they, too,
are more appropriately addressed in a writ petition.”  (Id. ¶ 66.) 
Thus, Petitioners suggest that ALJ has indicated that it is futile for
Petitioners to raise constitutional arguments in the OAH proceeding.  (Id. ¶ 65.)
 
Based upon the foregoing allegations,
Petitioners request “a writ of administrative mandate directing DFPI to act for
the public interest and follow the ethical requirements of government
prosecuting attorneys, including appropriate disclosure of exculpatory
evidence, and directing OAH to follow OAH regulations and APA impartially to
both parties in the DPFI Action, including issuing written rulings on motions
to appropriately document and develop the administrative record.”  (Id. ¶ 110.) 
Again, Petitioners have not exhausted their administrative remedies.  In fact, Petitioners have an adequate
administrative remedy, i.e., to raise these issues during the administrative
process.  
 
Nor do Petitioners allege sufficient
facts to demonstrate an exception to the exhaustion requirement.  To the extent Petitioners repeat the same
arguments, the court rejects them for the reasons discussed.  The court has considered Petitioners’
arguments that are specific to the third cause of action and finds no
irreparable harm.  Although Petitioners
allege that the ALJ did not issue written rulings for certain motions,
Petitioners do not show that the ALJ was required by law to issue written
rulings for those motions.  For instance,
Petitioners
fail to allege whether they or Respondent filed any motion to compel that would
have required a written ruling pursuant to Government Code section
11507.7.  (FAP ¶ 106.)  Moreover, Petitioners do not allege that the
ALJ’s oral rulings were not transcribed by a court reporter.  To the extent Petitioners suggest the ALJ
declined to rule on constitutional arguments, Petitioners do not allege that it
would be futile to complete the administrative process.  “For the futility exception
to apply, it is not sufficient that a party can show what the agency's ruling
would be on a particular issue or defense. Rather, the party
must show what the agency's ruling would be ‘on a particular case.’”  (Coachella Valley v. Cal. Public
Employment Relations Bd. (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 1072, 1081.)  For all of these reasons, Petitioners
do not allege sufficient facts to support a claim that they would suffer
irreparable harm if the trial court does not intervene prior to completion of
the administrative process.  
 
The
court has considered Petitioners’ remaining arguments and finds none to be
persuasive.  Therefore, the court
sustains Respondents’ demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
D.        Fourth, Fifth, and Seventh Causes of
Action 
 
            The fourth cause of action seeks
declaratory relief concerning the application of Corporations Code section
24242, which is derivative of the first cause of action.  The fifth cause of action seeks declaratory
relief concerning the application of Corporations Code section 25403 to assert
liability against Towner, which is derivative of the second cause of action.  The seventh cause of action seeks declaratory
relief on whether Petitioners have a constitutional right to a jury trial,
which is derivative of the third cause of action.     
 
A
declaratory relief action is inappropriate when a plaintiff has an adequate
remedy on other causes of action at trial. 
(See Hood v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California Ins. Guarantee Assn. v. Superior
Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.) 

 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
 
(General of America Ins. Co.
v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) 
The Court has discretion to decline to issue a declaratory judgment
under these circumstances.  (See AICCO,
Inc. v. Insurance Company of North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579,
590.)  In the alternative, the court
sustains the demurrer to these causes of action for the same reasons it
sustains the demurrer to the writs causes of action. 
 
            E.         Sixth Cause of Action 
 
            In the
sixth cause of action, Petitioners argue that Respondents violated the statutes
governing confidential personnel records of peace officers.  Petitioners seek declaratory relief finding
that: “(i) the documents and information that DFPI received from VCDA on or
around June 25, 2019 are confidential peace officer records of Towner; (ii)
DFPI’s acquisition of such confidential peace officer records were acquired
illegally by DFPI as not following the Pitchess motion requirements; (iii) DFPI
is an enforcement agency that knows or should know of the requirements of
Pitchess motion; (iv) DFPI’s receipt, possession and use of the confidential
peace records constitute a misdemeanor under California law; and (v) all
information derived from such confidential peace officer records should be
excluded from the DFPI Action as result of the interrelationship and joint
action by DFPI and VCDA.”  (FAP ¶ 145
[bold italics added].)  This cause of
action is derivative of the third cause of action because Petitioners ask this
court to make certain findings and exclude evidence from the underlying
administrative proceedings.  The ALJ must
make these decisions in the first instance. 
Accordingly, this cause of action is derivative of, and irreparably
intertwined with, the third cause of action. 
To the extent Towner alleges that the VCDA violated the Pitchess
statutes, the VCDA is not a party to this case. 
Therefore, the court sustains the demurrer to the sixth cause of
action.  
 
            F.         Eighth Cause of Action
 
In
the eighth cause of action, Petitioners allege that “[b]y acting in the manner
set forth in the foregoing paragraphs, DFPI and its agents, employees and
counsel, acted arbitrarily and unreasonably, in violation of Petitioners’
rights to substantiative and procedural due process and equal protection of the
laws.”  (FAP ¶ 160.)  Petitioners allege that “[a]s a proximate
result of DFPI’s actions, including its agents, employees, and
counsel acting in their official capacities for DFPI and the State of
California, Petitioners have suffered and may continue to suffer irreparable
harm as set forth above and injunctive and monetary relief is therefore
appropriate as well as recovery of reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs under
42 U.S.C. § 1988.”  (Id. ¶ 161.)  Accordingly, the eighth cause of action is
derivative of the writs causes of action, and the court sustains the demurrer
on the same grounds.  
 
G.        Leave to Amend 
 
A
demurrer may be sustained without leave to amend when there is no reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)  Courts generally allow at
least one time to amend a complaint after sustaining a demurrer.  (McDonald
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 297, 303.)  In assessing whether leave to amend should be
granted, the burden is on the complainant to show the court that a pleading can
be amended successfully.  (Goodman v. 
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348-349.)  
 
In this case, the court has already granted
Petitioners leave to amend the petition, to no avail.  Although Petitioners request leave to amend,
they have not made an offer of proof of how the petition could be successfully
amended to plead an excuse from exhaustion. 
(See Oppo. 16.) In these circumstances, leave to amend is denied.  The
court’s ruling is limited to the present circumstances in which the OAH
proceeding is still pending, and all of Petitioners’ causes of action are
inherently intertwined with that proceeding. 
The court does not intend, by this ruling, to bar Petitioners from
pursuing declaratory relief or a cause of action under Title 42, United States
Code, section 1983, where legally appropriate, after exhaustion of their
administrative remedies.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         Respondents’
demurrer is sustained.
 
            2.         The
court denies leave to amend, as there is no reasonably possibility that
Petitioners can remedy the defects because the administrative proceedings are
still pending. 
 
3.         The court’s ruling is limited to the
present circumstances in which the OAH proceeding is still pending, and all of
Petitioners’ causes of action are inherently intertwined with that
proceeding.  The court does not intend,
by this ruling, to bar Petitioners from pursuing declaratory relief or a cause
of action under Title 42, United States Code, section 1983, where legally
appropriate, after exhaustion of their administrative remedies.  
 
            4.         Respondents
shall lodge a proposed judgment forthwith.
 
            5.         Respondents
shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court. 


