  Case Number:  21STCP03696    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  82 Save
Our Rural Town v. Department of the Auditor-Controller for Los Angeles County
Case
No. 21STCP03696
Order
Denying Motion to Tax/Strike Costs
 
INTRODUCTION

 
            The Real Parties in Interest—Doug
Gaudi, Joanna Gaudi, Paul Zerounian, and Robert Friedman, collectively the
“Real Parties”—filed a memorandum of costs seeking $1,102.50 relating to
filing and motions fees, and fees for electronic filing or service.  Petitioner Save Our Rural Town (“SORT”) filed
a motion to tax these costs, arguing that they were incurred in connection with
cross-complaints to which Petitioner was not a party.  The motion is denied.  
 
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY 
 
In
its amended petition, Petitioner Save Our Rural Town (“Petitioner” or “SORT”) sought
a writ of traditional mandate directing Respondent County of Los Angeles
(“County”) to deposit with the court the full amount necessary to satisfy a
money judgment that Petitioner obtained against Respondent in a different
litigation.  The County filed a
cross-complaint for indemnity against the Real Parties.  Because the cross-complaint did not seek any
writ relief, the court (Beckloff, J.) ordered the cross-complaint severed and
transferred to an independent calendar court. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated May 7, 2022.)  The Real Parties also filed a cross-complaint
against the County for indemnity.  The
cross-complaints were assigned to Department 32 (Murphy, J.).  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 6,
2022.)  
 
On
February 17, 2023, the court (Beckloff, J.) granted Petitioner’s petition for
writ of mandate.  The court found that “Petitioner
is entitled to a traditional writ of mandate requiring the County to pay it
$406,574.91 plus interest as computed under Government Code section 970.1,
subdivision (c).”  (Court’s Order, dated
February 17, 2023.)  On or about March
30, 2023, Petitioner filed a proposed judgment. 
As relevant to the instant motion, paragraph 7 of the proposed judgment
ordered the Real Parties to pay Petitioners’ enforcement costs in the amount of
$93,981.20 plus statutory interest.  On
April 10, 2023, Real Parties filed objections to paragraph 7 of the proposed
judgment.  
 
On
June 20, 2023, the County filed a notice in Department 32 (Murphy, J.) stating
that the County and the Real Parties reached an unconditional settlement of the
cross-actions.  On June 28, 2023, the
court (Murphy, J.) granted the Real parties’ ex parte application to
vacate future hearing dates, retain jurisdiction, and dismiss the
cross-complaints.  (See Reply Taber Decl.
Exh. 3.)  On July 10, 2023, Petitioner
filed a notice of settlement before Department 86 (Beckloff, J.) stating that
because the cross-actions had settled, the court may enter judgment on the
petition for writ of mandate.  
 
On
July 13, 2023, the court (Murphy, J.) entered judgment in favor of Petitioner
and against the County.  Paragraph 7 of
the judgment ordered the Real Parties to pay Petitioners’ enforcement costs in
the amount of $93,981.20 plus statutory interest.  After receiving notice of the judgment, the Real
Parties’ attorney requested that Petitioner’s attorney stipulate to vacate the
judgment.  Petitioner’s attorney
refused.  (Braly Decl. ¶ 6.)  Accordingly, Real Parties filed an ex parte
application to vacate the judgment, which was denied, and then a motion to
vacate the judgment.  Petitioner opposed
the motion.  (Id. ¶¶ 7-9.)  On August 25, 2023, the court (Murphy, J.)
granted the motion to vacate the judgment. 
The court’s order states, in part: “The order for Real Parties to pay
$93,981.20 in enforcement costs is legally erroneous because SORT was expressly
denied these costs, and there is no ruling or result in the case that requires
Real Parties to pay this amount.” 
(Minute Order filed 8/25/23.)
 
On
December 8, 2023, the court (Beckloff, J.) entered a new judgment on the
petition, which removed the paragraph ordering Real Parties to pay Petitioners’
enforcement costs.  This new judgment
also includes a paragraph stating that “Real Parties are the prevailing parties
against Petitioner.”  (See also Order on
OSC re Entry of Judgment filed 12/8/23.) 
On January 8, 2024, the Real Parties filed a memorandum of costs seeking
total costs of $1,102.05 in connection with the motion to set aside the
judgment, the ex parte application to set aside the judgment, the objection to
the proposed judgment, and a stipulation to continue an OSC.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700, subdivision (b) provide that
a motion may be made to strike or tax costs in a cost memorandum.  The memorandum of costs must be “verified by
a statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of his or her
knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily incurred in the
case.”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1700(a)(1).)
 
DISCUSSION

 
            Petitioner contends that the cost memorandum should be struck
in its entirety because the costs were incurred in connection with the
cross-complaints, which were severed and transferred to Department 32, and were
not “necessarily incurred” in connection with the petition for writ of
mandate.  The court is not persuaded by
this argument.  Although the cross-claims
were transferred to an independent calendar court, they nonetheless remained
part of the same legal action.  
 
More important, the Real
Parties’ costs were all incurred challenging paragraph 7 of the judgment lodged
by Petitioner, which incorrectly included enforcement costs against the Real
Parties in connection with the writ petition. 
In fact, Petitioner was not awarded enforcement costs against the Real
Parties and did not prevail against the Real Parties.  (See Court’s Order, dated December 8,
2023, at 2.)  Nevertheless, Petitioner refused the
Real Parties’ request to stipulate to vacate the judgment that included
paragraph 7 and also opposed Real Parties’ motion to vacate the judgment.  Accordingly, Judge Beckloff ruled that Real
Parties are the prevailing parties against Petitioner.  (See Ibid.; see also Judgment, dated December
8, 2023.)  Under the “one judgment rule,”
this judgment and the related litigation necessarily related to the writs
case.  Accordingly, the court finds that
Real Parties’ costs were necessarily incurred in this case and are recoverable
against Petitioner.  
 
            Petitioner argues that Judge Murphy eventually dismissed
the cross-complaints.  (See Reply
3-4.)  Petitioner cites no authority for
its contention that costs reasonably incurred by Real Parties, in connection
with a judgment filed by Petitioner in this writ action, are not recoverable.
 
            Based upon the foregoing, Petitioner’s motion to tax
costs is denied.  Petitioner’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 
 
 
 
 