 Case Number:  23STCV28695    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  82 Ezzy
Homecare and Staffing Agency, LLC v. Miracle Mile Healthcare Center, LLC
Case No. 23STCV28695
[Tentative] Order
on Application for Writ of Attachment
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
            Plaintiff
Ezzy Homecare and Staffing Agency, LLC (“Plaintiff”) moves for a writ of
attachment in the amount of $859,258.50, including $50,000 in attorney’s fees,
against Defendant Miracle Mile Healthcare Center, LLC (“Defendant”).  The writ of attachment is granted.    
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 
            On December 12, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative, first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendant for breach of service contract and common counts.  Defendant has answered the FAC and also filed
a cross-complaint for breach of contract. 
On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant application for writ of
attachment, and on May 2, 2024, Defendant filed its opposition.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Upon the filing
of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to
this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an
application for the order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.010.)  The court shall
issue a right to attach order if the court finds all of the
following: 
 
(1)            
The claim upon which
the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued. 
 
(2)            
The plaintiff has
established the probable validity of the claim upon which the attachment is
based. 
 
(3)            
The attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based. 
 
(4)            
The amount to be secured by
the attachment is greater than zero.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 484.090.)  
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than
not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 481.190.)    “In contested applications, the court must consider the
relative merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a
determination of¿the probable outcome of the litigation.”¿  (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th
76, 80.)  
 
“The
application shall be supported by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on
the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the
attachment is based.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 484.030.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 482.040
states in pertinent part: “The facts stated in each affidavit filed pursuant to this
title shall be set forth with particularity. Except where matters are
specifically permitted by this title to be shown by information and belief,
each affidavit shall show affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a
witness, can testify competently to the facts stated therein. As to matters
shown by information and belief, the affidavit shall state the facts on which
the affiant’s belief is based, showing the nature of his information and the
reliability of his informant. The affiant may be any person, whether or not a
party to the action, who has knowledge of the facts.”  “The Attachment Law statutes are subject
to strict construction.” (Epstein
v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th
1159, 1168.) 

 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Probable Validity of Plaintiff’s Claim 
 
The application is
based on Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of contract.  To establish a claim for breach of contract,
a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach of the
contract; and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)  Plaintiff contends that Defendant has
breached the parties’ written services agreement dated April 5, 2022 (“Services
Agreement”), causing Plaintiff damages in the principal amount of $809,258.50.  Plaintiff also contends that it is entitled to
attachment for $50,000 in attorney’s fees pursuant to an attorney’s fees
provision in the Services Agreement.  
 
On April 5, 2022,
Plaintiff and Defendant executed the Services Agreement, under which Plaintiff agreed
to provide medical staffing to Defendant, a skilled nursing facility, upon
request.  (Udengwu Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
1.)  Plaintiff agreed to invoice
Defendant biweekly for the services provided. 
(Id. ¶ 5.1.)  In paragraph 5.2,
Defendant agreed to pay Plaintiff’s invoices within 30 days of the date of the
invoice and also to pay reasonable attorney’s fees for the cost of
collection.  (Id. ¶ 5.2.)
 
Plaintiff submits
evidence, including invoices, showing that Defendant has failed to make
payments in the amount of $809,258.50 for nursing and staffing services
provided under the Services Agreement from March 16, 2023, through November 15,
2023.  (Udengwu Decl. ¶¶ 2-11 and Exh.
2.)  Plaintiff’s attorney reasonably estimates
that Plaintiff will incur at least $50,000 in attorney’s fees prosecuting this
action through trial.  (Cohen Decl. ¶¶
2-3; see also CCP § 482.110(b) [“the amount to be secured by the attachment may
include an estimated amount for costs and allowable attorney's fees”].)  
 
In opposition,
Defendant does not dispute that it has failed to pay $809,258.50 for staffing
services that were provided and invoiced by Plaintiff for the period of March
16, 2023, through November 15, 2023.  Defendant
does not dispute that the invoices were not paid within 30 days and are
considered past due pursuant to paragraph 5.2 of the Services Agreement.  Defendant also does not challenge Plaintiff’s
estimate of attorney’s fees for this action in the amount of $50,000.  
 
Rather, Defendant
contends that Plaintiff has breached the Services Agreement by placing two
staff members with Defendant, Sharonda Head, LVN and Sylvester Samuel, “without
proper training or proper qualifications.” 
(Cross-Compl. ¶ 21.)  Although
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s “breach was material and resulted in
substantial damages to Defendant” (Oppo. 9), Defendant does not show that Plaintiff’s
alleged breach excused Defendant from paying for the services that were
rendered by contractors other than Head or Samuel.  (See generally Brown v. Grimes (2011)
192 Cal.App.4th 265, 278 [“Whether a partial breach of a contract is material
depends on ‘the importance or seriousness thereof and the probability of the
injured party getting substantial performance.’”].)  
 
Notably, the
unpaid invoices at issue were for staffing services provided under the Services
Agreement from March 16, 2023, through November 15, 2023.  (Udengwu Decl. ¶¶ 2-11 and Exh. 2.)  Thus, the evidence shows that Defendant
continued to request staffing services from Plaintiff after the alleged incident
concerning LVN Head, which occurred in or around January and February 2023, and
which Defendant states was the “most serious” of the complaints.  (See Udengwu Decl. ¶ 17 and Gardenas Decl. ¶¶
7, 12 and Exh. B-D.)  Further, the
billing invoices submitted by Plaintiff do not appear to show work performed by
Head or Samuel and show that Plaintiff’s alleged damages are based on work
performed by many other contractors supplied by Plaintiff.  (Udengwu Decl. Exh. 2.)  Indeed, Defendant acknowledges that Head was
not permitted to perform additional work at Defendant’s facility after the
incident, discussed below.  (Gardenas
Decl. ¶ 12; see Oppo. Exh. B-D.)  
 
Because Defendant
continued to request and accept staffing services from Plaintiff, and because
Plaintiff received such services from many medical contractors other than Head
and Samuel, Defendant has not shown a failure of performance by Plaintiff that
would negate Plaintiff’s damages for the billing invoices at issue.  Rather, Defendant’s raises an issue
concerning a potential reduction of the amount of Plaintiff’s attachment based
on alleged partial breach of the Services Agreement with respect to services
provided by Head and Samuel.  (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 483.015(b).)  The court will
address that issue separately.    
 
            B.        Basis
of Attachment 
 
            “[A]n attachment may be issued only
in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney's fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(a).)  “An
attachment may not be issued on a claim which is secured by any interest in
real property arising from agreement ….” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 483.010(b).)  “[A]n attachment
will lie upon a cause of action for damages for a breach of contract where the
damages are readily ascertainable by reference to the contract and the basis of
the computation of damages appears to be reasonable and definite.  The fact
that the damages are unliquidated is not determinative.  But the contract sued on must furnish a
standard by which the amount due may be clearly ascertained and there must
exist a basis upon which the damages can be determined by proof.” (CIT
Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. v. Super DVD, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App. 4th
537, 541, citations and internal quotations omitted.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s
application for writ of attachment is based on an agreement where the total
amount allegedly due is in excess of $500. 
The agreement is not secured by real property. The Services Agreement
furnishes a standard by which the amount due may be clearly ascertained,
specifically by reference to Plaintiff’s unpaid invoices.  (See Udengwu Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1, ¶¶ 5.1 and
5.2.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s damages
are fixed and readily ascertainable from the terms of the Services Agreement
and from Plaintiff’s declaration and exhibits, including the invoices submitted
as Exhibit 2 to the Udengwu declaration. 
(Id. Exh. 2.)  To the extent
Defendant argues to the contrary (see Notice of Opposition ¶ 4.b), the argument
is not persuasive.  
 
C.        Purpose and Amount of Attachment 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 484.090 states that the Court shall issue a right to attach
order if “the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on
the claim upon which the attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be
secured by the attachment is greater than zero.”  Plaintiff declares, and the court finds, that
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on Plaintiff’s
contract claim.  (Appl. ¶ 4.)  The amount to be secured is greater than
zero.
 
D.        Reduction of Amount to be Secured by
Attachment 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 483.015(b) provides that the amount to be secured by the
attachment shall be reduced by, inter
alia: “The amount of any indebtedness of the plaintiff that the defendant
has claimed in a cross-complaint filed in the action if the defendant’s claim
is one upon which an attachment could be issued.”  Contrary to Defendant’s suggestion (see Oppo.
8:3-21), Defendant has the initial burden of proof to satisfy the requirements
of attachment for any offset claim.  (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 483.015; see also Lydig Construction, Inc. v. Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th
937, 945.)  Among other requirements,
“the contract sued on must furnish a standard by which the amount due may be
clearly ascertained and there must exist a basis upon which the damages can be
determined by proof.’” (See CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc., supra, 115
Cal.App.4th at 541.)  However, while
Defendant has the initial burden of proof on the claim for offset, “the court must consider the relative merits of the
positions of the respective parties and make a determination of¿the probable
outcome of the litigation.”¿  (Hobbs
v. Weiss (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 76, 80.) 

 
As noted above,
Defendant contends in the cross-complaint that Plaintiff has breached the
Services Agreement by placing two staff members with Defendant, Sharonda Head,
LVN and Sylvester Samuel, “without proper training or proper
qualifications.”  (Cross-Compl. ¶ 21.)  Similarly, Defendant alleges that Plaintiff
breached the Services Agreement “by providing employees not properly trained
and/or not properly qualified to perform duties as required by the Staffing
Agreement.”  (Cross-Compl. ¶ 20.)  In support of these allegations, Defendant
submits evidence that, in early 2023, a complaint was filed against LVN Head by
the family ombudsman for patient abuse related to Head’s alleged failure to
provide medication to the patient while working at Defendant’s skilled nursing
facility.  (Musolino Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. B,
C.)  Defendant also submits evidence that
a complaint was made against medical staffer Samuel for deficient care.  (Id. ¶ 8.) 
The California Department of Public Health (“CDPH”) investigated the
complaints and found that deficient care was provided at Defendant’s
facility.  As a result of the
investigation, Defendant received citations from the Los Angeles County
Department of Public Health and the federal Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, including severe level “G” citations. 
Defendant was also placed in a status known as Denial of New Patient
Admissions (“DNPA”) for April 10, 2023, to May 10, 2023.  According to Defendant’s representatives,
DNPA status meant that Defendant would not be paid by Medicare for newly
admitted patients for the period of April 10, 2023, to May 10, 2023.  (Musolino Decl. ¶¶ 8-9; Cardenas Decl. ¶¶
7-9; and Exh. B-J.)  The level “G”
citations, which totaled $127,500, are currently on appeal and are not
final.  (Musolino Decl. ¶ 10.)  Two lesser level “B” citations, totaling
$6,000, were also imposed on Defendant. 
(See Id. ¶ 9.)  Defendant also
claims various consequential damages as a result of the allegedly deficient
care of Head and Samuel, as discussed further below.  (Oppo. 6; Musolino Decl. ¶ 14; Gardenas Decl.
¶¶ 6-12; Petterson Decl. ¶¶ 4-10.)  
 
Nevertheless, Defendant does not demonstrate
probable validity of its contract claim against Plaintiff because Defendant’s
counsel does not discuss the relevant terms of the contract or explain how
Plaintiff breached any contract term by its acts or omissions.  Defendant suggests that the complaints
made against Head and Samuel prove that Plaintiff breached an unspecified term
of the Services Agreement, but Defendant never develops that argument with
discussion of the contract terms or relevant evidence.  Further, Defendant does not explain why
complaints filed against two medical staffers, out of numerous others,
necessarily proves that Plaintiff itself breached any contract duties.  As noted, Defendant continued to request and
receive staffing services from Plaintiff after the incident involving LVN Head,
which undermines Defendant’s argument that there was a material breach by
Plaintiff.  While not discussed in the
briefs, paragraph 4.12 of the Services Agreement states that Defendant may
require a person assigned by Plaintiff to “leave its premises” if such person
is “incompetent,” “negligent,” or has engaged in misconduct.  However, paragraph 4.12 also states that
Defendant retains the obligation to pay Plaintiff for “the hours actually
worked by such a person.”  
 
Defendant appears
to rely on an indemnification provision of the Services Agreement, which
provides as follows:
 
6.2. Each party agrees to indemnify and hold the
other, including directors, officers, agents and workers, harmless from all
claims, suits, judgments, demand arising from the indemnifying. [sic]  Party’s negligence and/or intentional acts
and omissions in performance of the duties prescribed by this Agreement. Each
party shall give the other immediate written notice of any claim, suit or
demand which may be subject to this provision. This provision shall provide the
termination of this Agreement.
 
(Udengwu Decl.
Exh. 1.)  Although Defendant quotes paragraph
6.2 of the Services Agreement, Defendant never develops an argument that
Plaintiff breached this paragraph or is liable for damages in any specific
amount for breach of paragraph 6.2.  (Nelson
v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863 [“When an appellant
fails to raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned
argument and citations to authority, we treat the point as waived”].)  The court also notes that the cross-complaint
does not mention paragraph 6.2 of the Services Agreement or allege that
Plaintiff breached paragraph 6.2 by failing to indemnify Defendant for any
alleged “negligence and/or intentional acts and omissions in performance of the
duties prescribed by this Agreement.” 
Paragraph 6.2 also requires that “each party shall give the other immediate
written notice of any claim, suit or demand which may be subject to this
provision.”  (bold italics added.)  Defendant does not show that it complied with
this notice provision.
 
Regardless,
Defendant does not satisfy the “fixed or readily ascertainable” requirement for
a prejudgment writ of attachment.  Specifically,
“the contract sued on must furnish a standard by which the amount due may be
clearly ascertained and there must exist a basis upon which the damages can be
determined by proof.’” (See CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc., supra, 115
Cal.App.4th at 541.)  Defendant fails to
satisfy this standard because none of its alleged damages are fixed or readily
ascertainable from the Services Agreement itself.  Nor does Defendant identify any contractual
terms in the Services Agreement authorizing Defendant to recover damages for
citations caused by acts or omissions of Plaintiff or its medical staffer.  At best, the citations appear to be
consequential damages, and they are currently on appeal, which adds further
uncertainty.  
 
            Defendant also claims various
consequential damages as a result of the allegedly deficient care of Head and
Samuel, specifically: (1) $5,580 paid to plan of correction (“POC”) consultants
related to a POC that Defendant needed to submit to CDPH to demonstrate
remedial steps it had undertaken to address issues related to the misconduct
and deficient care of Head and Samuel; (2) deductions against future payments
in the amount of $115,126 for the DNPA from April 10, 2023, to May 10, 2023;
(4) loss of new patient admissions from April 10, 2023, to May 10, 2023, valued
at $115,513; and (5) outside attorney’s fees for the appeal of the level “G”
citations in the amount of $35,000. 
(Oppo. 6; Musolino Decl. ¶ 14; Gardenas Decl. ¶¶ 6-12; Petterson Decl.
¶¶ 4-10.)  Although not stated in its
opposition brief, Defendant also apparently claims loss of income in excess of
$1,200,000 as a result of the DNPA in April and May 2023.  (Petterson Decl. ¶¶ 4-10.)  As with the citations, Defendant has not
argued or demonstrated that these consequential damages are fixed or readily
ascertainable from the Services Agreement. 
Specifically, Defendant does not show that the contract furnishes a standard
by which such consequential damages could be “clearly ascertained” and “a basis
upon which the damages can be determined by proof.”    
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant has not shown that the requirements for
pre-judgment attachment are satisfied for its cross-claims.  Accordingly, no reduction in Plaintiff’s writ
of attachment is justified.
 
            E.         Subject Property and Exemptions
 
Defendant is a limited liability
corporation and not a natural person. 
Accordingly, “all corporate property for which a method of levy is provided
by Article 2 (commencing with Section 488.300) of Chapter 8” may be
attached.  (Code Civ. Proc.a §
487.010(a).)  Plaintiff’s request for
attachment of all of Defendant’s property is proper.  (Appl. ¶ 9c.) 
Defendant has not claimed any exemptions. 
 
F.         Undertaking
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 489.210 requires the plaintiff to file an undertaking before
issuance of a writ of attachment.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 489.220 provides, with exceptions, for an
undertaking in the amount of $10,000.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The application for writ of attachment
is GRANTED in the amount requested of $859,258.50.  
 
2.         Plaintiff to
post an undertaking of $10,000.
 
            3.         Plaintiff shall provide notice and file
proof of service with the court.  
 