  Case Number:  21STCV07609    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  58  Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki

DEPARTMENT 58
 

Hearing Date:             September
12, 2024
Case
Name:                Playboy Enterprises
International, et al. v. Advanced Vita Supplements Corporation, et al.
Case
No.:                    21STCV07609
Calendar
No.:              Add-On
Matter:                        Motion for Summary
Judgment 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Playboy Enterprises International, Inc.
Responding
Party:      Defendant/Cross-Complainant
AVS Products LLC
 

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion
for Summary Judgment is denied. Motion for Summary Adjudication is denied in
its entirety.  

 
Background
 
            On May 7,
2021, Plaintiffs Playboy Enterprises International, Inc. and Products Licensing
LLC (collectively, Playboy) filed this action against Defendants Advanced Vita
Supplements Inc., AVS Products LLC, and Sasha Matloob for (1) breach of
contract, (2) violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, (3) violation of Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17500, (4) declaratory relief, and (5) accounting.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants breached
their licensing agreement to use Plaintiffs' trademarks and then continued to
market and sell Playboy-branded products after the agreement was
terminated.   
 
            On August 9,
2021, Defendant/Cross-complainant AVS Products, LLC (AVS), filed a
cross-complaint against Playboy, asserting claims for breach of contract,
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, quantum meruit,
and declaratory relief. AVS contends that Playboy interfered with its marketing
efforts and its other rights under the licensing agreement. 
 
            On May 3,
2022, Playboy filed a motion for summary judgment against the cross-complaint. Thereafter,
AVS moved for leave to amend its cross-complaint. The Court granted the motion.
 
            On June 6,
2022, AVS filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC). 
 
            On December
20, 2022, Playboy filed a renewed motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative
summary adjudication of the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
            On June 6,
2023, the Court denied Playboy’s renewed motion for summary judgment, but
granted Playboy’s motion for summary adjudication as to the fifth, sixth, and
seventh causes of action. As to the eighth through tenth causes of action, the
Court treated the motion as one for judgment on pleadings and granted it. The
motion for summary adjudication was denied as to the remaining causes of
action. As a result, AVS’s tort cross-claims were disposed of, leaving its
causes of acton for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, quantum meruit, and declaratory relief. 
 
            On June 13,
2024, Playboy filed the instant motion for summary judgment on the ground that
there are no triable issues of material fact as to whether AVS is entitled to
recover any damages pursuant to its remaining cross-claims.
 
            On August
13, 2024, AVS filed its opposition papers to the instant motion. On August 21,
2024, Playboy filed its reply papers.
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
Playboy inserted its objection within
its response to AVS’s separate statement of additional material facts. The
Court declines to rule on these evidentiary objections for failure to comply
with procedural requirements. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b)-(c)
[requirement of two separate documents, i.e., evidentiary objections and a
proposed order on those objections].)
 
AVS objects to UMF Nos. 10, 11, 16,
18, and 19 stated within Playboy’s separate statement on the ground that they do
not comply with Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(b)(1) and California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350 because Playboy failed to identify and cite to evidence that
supports those material facts. In reply, Playboy represents that the failure to
cite to the relevant evidence was inadvertently done by its former counsel and
has provided the corresponding citation to the evidence. The Court sustains the
objection with respect to Playboy’s undisputed material fact no. 19 because the
Kopcha declaration was not filed until August 15, 2024.[1]
As for the other items, AVS was able to dispute material facts and refer to
its own evidence to support its opposition. The Court finds that Playboy’s
failure to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(b)(1) and
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350 for the remaining UMFs was not prejudicial.
AVS’s objections regarding UMF nos. 10, 11, 16, and 18 are overruled. 
 
Judicial Notice
 
AVS requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the following documents: (1) AVS’s Amended Opposition to Playboy’s
renewed motion for summary judgment, filed May 12, 2023; (2) AVS’s Response To Playboy’s
Separate Statement Of Undisputed Material Facts In Support Of their renewed
motion for summary judgment, filed May 5, 2023; (3) the Court’s Tentative
Ruling on cross-defendants’ renewed motion for summary judgment, filed May 5,
2024; and (4) Playboy’s Investor Presentation dated October 2020. 
 
Pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d),
the Court takes judicial notice of item 3 as to the document’s existence and
the truth of the matter asserted therein; as the request pertains to items 1
and 2, the Court only takes judicial notice of the existence of  those documents referenced in those items. The
Court declines to take judicial notice of item 4. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The
party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is
no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) A triable issue of material fact exists if the evidence
would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of
the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of
proof. (Ibid.) 
 
            “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008)
159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
            On November
30, 2012, Playboy and Advanced Vita Supplements Inc (Advanced Vita) entered
into a Product License Agreement (License) whereby Playboy granted Advanced
Vita an exclusive license to design, manufacture, advertise, promote, sell, and
distribute certain sexual enhancement dietary supplements using identified
Playboy trademarks and images in specified territories, provided Advanced Vita
fulfilled various delineated preconditions. (UMF No. 1; Bjorgum Decl, Exh. 1.)
The parties later amended the License via the Third Amendment, dated February
1, 2016, and the Fourth Amendment, dated September 20, 2017 (Fourth Amendment).
(UMF No. 2; Bjorgum Decl., Exhs. 2 and 3.)  
 
Of note here, as part of the License,
the parties agreed to limit liability by precluding recovery for any
incidental, consequential, punitive, or exemplary damages. Relief that the
parties agreed could be awarded were equitable relief, actual damages, and
damages for injury to goodwill or reputation. (UMF No. 3; Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 1
at ¶ 18.)
 
In September 2016, Advanced Vita and new investor
Sunrise Brands LLC formed AVS in order to “manufacture market, distribute and
sell male and female enhancement products under the Playboy trademark,” in
which Sunrise Brands LLC owned a 50% share in AVS. (UMF Nos. 4-5; Bjorgum Decl.
Exh. 5, Guez Depo at pg. 20:6-23; Exh. 7 [Articles of Organization].) 
 
In October 2019, the parties
circulated a “Joint Venture Term Sheet” in which Playboy and AVS would create a
new company “to develop, produce and commercialize specific prescription
and nutraceutical products under the PB Brand . . . on a global basis.” (UMF
No. 6; Opp., Kay Decl., Exh. 84) The 2019 Term Sheet contained detailed
funding, licensing and profit share provisions. (Ibid.) On December 13, 2019, Todd Kay, one
of the owners of Sunrise Brands LLC, met with Playboy CEO Ben Kohn. During the
meeting, Kay represented that his partner, Gerard Guez, wanted a $100 million
for 49% of this new company. (UMF No. 7; Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 10 (Kay Depo at
pp. 92:13-19, 83:10-15.) In January 2020, AVS submitted a proposal for Playboy
to Buy AVS that included a payment of $10 million from net sales, 50% of
Adjusted EBITDA for certain products, and 35% of Adjusted Exit Proceeds. (UMF
No. 9; Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 11.) Ultimately, neither the proposed October 2019
joint venture agreement nor the proposed January 2020 purchase agreement were implemented.
(Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 5, Guez Depo at pp. 125:23-126:1, 126:6-25.)
 
In
March 2020, Playboy terminated the License, contending that AVS failed to pay
Guaranteed Royalties for 2019. (UMF 10; Bjorgum, Decl., Exh. 17.) The parties’
disputes and claims arise from the License and the Fourth Amendment. 
 
Playboy now moves for order granting
summary judgment on all remaining causes of action asserted by
Cross-Complainant AVS on the FACC on the grounds that
no genuine issues of material fact exist as to any of AVS’s claims because AVS
is unable to establish the element of damages. Thus, Playboy asserts that it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to each.
 
A.   
Procedural Issue
 
AVS argues that the instant motion
should be denied because it was not served with the requisite notice provided
under Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(a)(2). (Opposition at p. 8.) In
particular, AVS argues that the motion should have been served 77 days before
the hearing date (i.e. June 11, 2024) because service has been effectuated via
electronic mail, but instead, it was served on June 14, 2024. (Id.;
relying on Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(a)(3).) However, defective notice can be
waived through various means, and those could include the following: “filing an
opposition to the original motion, appearing and arguing at the hearing on the
appealed matter, failing to request a continuance and failing to identify
prejudice arising from the lack of notice.” (Robinson v. Woods (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1264; see also Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 690, 696-697.) While AVS has objected to the motion on the basis of
defective notice, AVS has failed to indicate how it has been prejudiced by
Playboy’s error. This is further underscored by the fact that AVS was able to
submit a substantive opposition to the instant motion. AVS has not been
prejudiced by late notice. The Court turns to the merits. 
 
B.   
First Cause of Action for Breach of Contract (Issue 1)
 
The FACC alleges Playboy breached the
Fourth Amendment to the License, which frustrated AVS’s ability to satisfy its
obligations as a licensee under the License. (FACC ¶¶ 8, 33, 34, 38-39.) Thus,
Playboy lacked a valid basis for terminating the License. (FACC ¶ 8.) 
 
The FACC alleges multiple breaches of
the contract in connection with the following categories: (1) failing to
provide promised marketing support (FACC ¶ 33); (2) failing to provide feedback
when denying approvals for packaging designs (FACC ¶ 34); and (3) requiring a
“logo-lockup” on all packages (FACC ¶¶ 38-39.) 
 
Playboy now argues that AVS is unable
to identify any damages that are tied to these alleged breaches. Instead,
Playboy asserts that AVS’s damage claims are premised on the following: (1) AVS’s
claim is for consequential damages, which are excluded from consideration based
on the License’s provision for limiting liability; (2) the damages are speculative;
and (3) AVS has suffered no damage to its goodwill. (Motion at pp. 5, 8-11, 13.)

 
1.     Whether AVS’s Claim for Damages are Consequential
Damage and Thereby Barred by the License’s Limitation of Liability Provision
 
In moving for summary adjudication on
AVS’s breach of contract claim, Playboy characterizes AVS’s damages of lost
profits as amounting to special or consequential damages and asserts that those
such damages are not recoverable under the limitation of liability provision.
(Motion at pp. 8-10.)
 
“Contract damages are generally
limited to those within the contemplation of the parties when the contract was
entered into or at least reasonably foreseeable by them at the time;
consequential damages beyond the expectations of the parties are not recoverable.
[Citations.] This limitation on available damages serves to encourage
contractual relations and commercial activity by enabling parties to estimate
in advance the financial risks of their enterprise.” (Applied Equipment
Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 515.) While a party
does not need to “have contemplated the very consequence that occurred,” it
must be contemplated that such a consequence would likely follow a breach, and
as a result, unanticipated injuries are not recoverable under a contract. (Hunt
Bros. Co. v. San Lorenzo Water Co. (1906) 150 Cal. 51, 56.)
 
Here, Playboy argues that AVS’s
damages are solely tied to the unrealized profits associated with the 2019
Joint Venture that the parties had never agreed to. (Motion at pp. 4-5, 8-10;
UMF Nos. 7, 11-13.)  These alleged lost
profits, Playboy maintains, have no connection with the alleged breaches
identified by the Court in its June 6, 2023 Minute Order. (Id. at pp.
4-5, 10.) Instead, Playboy argues that AVS’s claimed damages are based on “lost
opportunities that never existed” and that Playboy’s “alleged failure to timely
approve products or marketing in no way would result in ‘necessary’ damages
that [it] would not enter into a joint venture with AVS.” (Motion at pg. 10,
relying on Lewis Jorge Construction Management, Inc. v. Pomona Unified
Scholl District (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 960, 968-969 (Lewis Jorge).) Because
these lost profit damages do not flow from a breach of the License, Playboy
asserts that AVS’s claimed damages are consequential damages, and thus
unavailable. Playboy argues that the License’s limitation of liability
provision expressly precludes the recovery of consequential damages on a breach
of contract claim. (Ibid.; UMF No. 3.) 
 
Relying on Lewis Jorge,
Playboy argues that lost profits are not recoverable as general damages.
(Motion at p. 10; Reply at pp. 8-9.) In Lewis Jorge, a contractor sued a
school district for breach of a construction contract for declaring the
contractor in breach and making a demand on the contractor’s surety. (34
Cal.4th at p. 966.) This demand caused the surety to lower the contractor’s
bonding limits, and as a result, the contractor was precluded from taking on
larger construction projects. (Ibid.) In the context of a construction
breach of contract claim, our Supreme Court held in Lewis Jorge that
lost profits did not amount to general damages when a contractor sought to
recover unearned profits in connection with future construction projects that
had not yet been bid on or had been awarded after its bonding was impaired. (Id.
at pp. 973-974.) This is because the construction contract did not contemplate the
consequence of bond impairment following a contractual breach. (Ibid.)  The contractor’s lost profits were also not
special damages because insufficient evidence was presented to establish that
the claimed damages were “actually foreseen or foreseeable as reasonably
probable to result from the [] breach.” (Id. at p. 978.)
 
Lewis Jorge is less categorical than Playboy
contends and is factually distinguishable from the matter here. Lewis Jorge
explained that, “[u]nearned profits can sometimes be used as the measure of
general damages for breach of contract,” even though they are often
characterized as special damages. (Id., supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp.
971, 976.) It acknowledged that California courts have found that lost profits
constituted general damages when “the breaching party’s conduct prevented the
other side from undertaking performance.” (Ibid.) The California Supreme
Court also noted that lost profits were recoverable as general damages when
they arose from collateral transactions in certain circumstances: 
 
Lost profits from collateral
transactions as a measure of general damages for breach of contract typically
arise when the contract involves crops, goods intended for resale, or an
agreement creating an exclusive sales agency. (Nelson v. Reisner (1958)
51 Cal.2d 161, 170-171 [ 331 P.2d 17] [lessor's breach of lease precluded
sharecropping farmer from raising crops and realizing profit on their sale]; Morello
v. Growers Grape Prod. Assn. (1947) 82 Cal.App.2d 365 [ 186 P.2d 463]
[disappointed purchaser of brandy who intended to bottle and resell it]; Brunvold
v. Johnson (1939) 36 Cal.App.2d 226 [ 97 P.2d 489] [termination of
exclusive agent for sale of rope and twine products]; Tahoe Ice Co. v. Union
Ice Co. (1895) 109 Cal. 242 [ 41 P. 1020] [termination of supply contract
by ice retailer]; Grupe v. Glick (1945) 26 Cal.2d 680 [ 160 P.2d 832]
[defective oil refining machines purchased for resale by exclusive agent]; see
also Brandon Tibbs v. George Kevorkian Accountancy Corp. [(1990) 226
Cal.App.3d, 442,] 457 [where parties conceded that lost profits were the
measure of damages for breach, the breach of a joint venture to expand
accounting practice by acquiring an existing practice in another city supported
an award of unearned profits as component of general damages for breach of
contract].) The likelihood of lost profits from related or derivative
transactions is so obvious in these situations that the breaching party must be
deemed to have contemplated them at the inception of the contract.
 
(Id. at 971-972.) 
 
            Lewis
Jorge was an appeal from a jury verdict, not a motion for summary judgment.
And of course, this case does not involve breach of a construction contract. It
is questionable how analagous this case, involving an exclusive licensing
agreement, is to the facts in Lewis Jorge. Neither party has cited to a
case that determined whether or not lost profits associated with a collateral
transaction were general damages in the context of a licensing agreement. AVS’s
claim is more akin to an exclusive sales agency agreement because both
situations involve the exclusive right to sell a certain product for the
purpose of generating a profit from the agreement. As a result, AVS’s claim for
lost profits stemming from the proposed 2019 Joint Venture could be considered
general damages. (Brunvold, supra, 36 Cal.App.2d 226 [affirming lost
profits award as general damages for termination of exclusive distributorship].)
Here the License was entered into to allow AVS to develop, market, and sell
wellness products to consumers using Playboy’s trademark, and it appears that
the proposed 2019 Joint Venture only would have perpetuated the purpose of the
License. (UMF Nos. 1, 10.) Moreover, as pointed out by AVS, the License
included a minimum net sales provision, which was increased in the Fourth
Amendment. (Opposition at pp. 13-14; UMF Nos. 1, 3.) With this understanding,
it can be inferred that parties contemplated the issue of AVS’s potential
profits, and therefore, even if the 2019 Joint Venture is determined to be a
collateral transaction, it follows that lost profits associated with it would
be considered general damages.
 
            Even if
Playboy met its burden on summary adjudication on this issue, AVS has offered
evidence that Playboy delayed AVS’s ability to bring its products to market by
unreasonably delaying in providing approvals and by usurping AVS’s ability to
sell pharmaceutical products. (See Opposition at pp. 9-10; Kahil Decl. ¶¶ 2-32;
Exhs. 50-52, 55-56, 58-60, 64, 67 and 70; Matloob Decl. ¶ 7; Downes Decl., Exh.
67.) Thus, it is an issue of fact whether Playboy prevented AVS from undertaking
performance under the License thus causing it to lose profits.
 
            In reply, Playboy
argues that AVS is precluded from recovering any lost sales or lost profits
because, within the Fourth Amendment, “Playboy expressly disclaimed any ‘warranty
as to the amount of gross sales, net sales or profits Licensee shall derive
under’” the License. (Reply at pg. 9; Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 3 at § 20.)  However, Section 20 of the Fourth Amendment
refers to Playboy’s obligation to provide marketing support, not as to its
obligations in general under the License. (Ibid.) Therefore, the waiver
would only preclude the recovery of lost profits if it stemmed from Playboy’s
marketing support.
 
            Playboy has
failed to establish that AVS’s claimed damages are barred under the License.
The Court denies the motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of
action.
 
2.     Whether AVS’s Claim for Damages is
Speculative
 
Playboy also contends that AVS is
unable to maintain its claim for damages because AVS relies on speculative
evidence. (Motion at pp. 5, 10.) In doing so, Playboy points to AVS’s responses
to written discovery and deposition testimony to show that AVS’s damages are
not substantiated by the evidence. For instances, Playboy references AVS’s
response to Playboy’s Special Interrogatories, Set Two, Nos. 34 and 35 that
asks AVS to identify the basis and documents that support its claim of damages
for the amount in excess of $100,000,000. (UMF No. 11; Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 13.)
Playboy points out that AVS only referenced Playboy’s CEO’s representation that
the parties could pursue a joint-venture. (Ibid.) Also, Playboy takes
issue with the deposition testimony of AVS’s CEO Matloob because he failed to
elaborate on the reports and research that was conducted to support AVS’s
damages. (UMF Nos. 12-13; Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 16 Matloob Depo. at pp.
201:10-13, 202-204.) It further asserts that, based on AVS’s own spreadsheets,
AVS did not have any revenue to support its damage analysis. (UMF No. 15;
Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 15.)
 
With respect to its discovery
responses, AVS objected on the ground that the interrogatories were subject to
expert testimony and opinion that had yet to be produced. (Ibid.)  With regard to the Mr. Matloob’s deposition
testimony, it is not dispositive that he could not identify specific documents.
(Bjorgum Decl. Exh. 11; Matloob Depo. at pp. 201:18-23, 202:17-20,
202:23-203:5.) While Playboy relies on assertedly incomplete discovery
responses from AVS, it has not shown that AVS does not possess, and cannot
obtain, needed evidence to substantiate its damage claim. AVS has submitted a
report from its damage expert, Scott Bosworth to substantiate its damage
analysis, where he references AVS’s expertise, financial support, market
demand, and customer and distributor relationships as well as the pro forma financial
projections that had been created by AVS. (Bosworth Decl., Exh. 1; Hussey Decl.
¶¶ 3-4; Downes Decl. Exhs. 15-16.) 
 
In reply, Playboy attacks Bosworth’s
report and AVS’s financial projections by asserting that AVS has failed to
point to financial data that support its projections or lost profits damages.
(Reply at pp. 11-12.) Playboy further argues that an unestablished business,
like AVS, is unable to recover damages for lost profits because they are
speculative. (Id. at pg. 10.) Those may be compelling trial arguments,
but they are not grounds for granting summary adjudication. “ ‘[I]f the
business is a new one or if it is a speculative one . . ., damages may be
established with reasonable certainty with the aid of expert testimony,
economic and financial data, market surveys and analyses, business records of
similar enterprises, and the like.’ ” (Kids' Universe v. In2Labs (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 870, 884.) Unlike the defendant in Kids’ Universe and as stated
above, Playboy has not submitted affirmative evidence that AVS is unable to
establish its damage claim. 
 
In arguing that the pro forma
projections are meritless, Playboy relies on Parlour Enterprises, Inc. v.
Kirin Group, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 281. There the appellate court
determined that the pro forma projections were speculative and failed to
provide information on how those projections were calculated. (Id. at p.
290.)  That case, which arose from a jury
trial, is not authority for weighing evidence of damages here.
 
      Accordingly,
because Playboy has failed to satisfy its burden in showing that there are no
triable issues material fact that AVS’s evidence is speculative, the motion for
summary adjudication of the first cause of action is denied. 
 
3.     Whether AVS has Suffered Any Damage
to its Goodwill (Issue 4)
 
Playboy also argues that there has
been no damage to AVS’s goodwill and the License only protects Playboy’s
goodwill. (Motion at pg. 13; UMF No. 21, Bjorgum Decl., Exh. 1 at § 2(b)(i).)
While the License expressly identifies Playboy’s goodwill within Section
2(b)(i), the License does not expressly preclude AVS’s ability to recover
damages associated with its own goodwill. In fact, AVS’s ability to recover
such damages was contemplated within the limitations of liability provision of
the License and without any distinction between the parties. (Bjorgum Decl.,
Exh. 1 at § 18
 
With regard to the contention that
AVS is unable to show that it suffered any damage to its goodwill, Playboy
asserts that AVS lacked any pre-existing goodwill and that it had been created
to hold the license from Playboy. (Motion at p. 13.) Thus, Playboy reasons that
AVS lacked any goodwill apart from what was provided through Playboy’s
intellectual property. (Motion at p. 13; Reply at p. 14.)
 
Both parties cite to statute and case
law that address the issue of goodwill within the context of eminent domain
cases. (Motion at pg. 13; Opposition at pg. 18.) In those instances, goodwill
is defined as “the benefits that accrue to a business as a result of its
location, reputation for dependability, skill or quality, and other
circumstances resulting in probable retention of old or acquisition of new
patronage.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1263.510(b); Redevelopment Agency of San
Diego v. Attisha, (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 357, 367.) If the parties are
attempting to equate the taking of the License as a taking of real property,
then Playboy is improperly limiting the window in which AVS could establish its
own goodwill. Effectively, Playboy is arguing that AVS must be able to establish
that its own goodwill existed before receiving the License. However, “the case
law does not require at the entitlement phase a showing of the value of
pre-taking goodwill, but merely some proof that goodwill existed.” (People
ex rel. Dept. of Transportation v. Presidio Performing Arts Foundation
(2016) 5 Cal. App. 5th 190, 209.) This implies that a business’s goodwill is
measured prior to the taking of the property. Thus, because Playboy fails to
account for the time that AVS held the License and was conceivably generating
its own goodwill through its business operations, Playboy has not met its
burden in showing that AVS does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
evidence to substantiate its claim that their goodwill has been damaged. (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 854.) 
 
Accordingly, because Court finds that
Playboy has failed to meet its burden on summary adjudication on this issue,
the motion is denied on this ground. 
 
C.   
Second Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
Claim (Issue 2)
 
Here, Playboy argues that AVS’s
second cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith lacks
merit because it is derivative of AVS’s breach of contract claim and AVS is
unable to show that any damages stem from Playboy’s attempt to take the License
back for itself. (Motion at pp. 11-12.) As explained above, there is a genuine
issue of material fact as to whether AVS has sustained general damages due to
Playboy’s decision not to enter into a joint venture with AVS. Therefore, it
follows that there remains a genuine issue of material fact as to whether
Playboy’s alleged attempt to take the License back for itself resulted in AVS’s
claimed damages. 
 
            Accordingly,
the motion for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for breach of
the implied covenant of good faith is denied. 
 
D.  
Third Cause of Action for Quantum Meruit Claim (Issue 3)
 
Playboy argues AVS’s quantum meruit
claim fails as a matter of law because “Playboy received no benefit from AVS’s work on web pages or work on a pharmaceutical
product.” (Motion at pp. 12-13; UMF No. 19; Notice of Errata, Exh. A,
Kopcha Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) As noted, the Court deems the Kopcha declaration
inadmissible.  Moreover, Playboy’s
argument improperly limits the measure of damages associated with AVS’s quantum
meruit claim. 
 
“The measure of recovery in quantum
meruit is the reasonable value of the services rendered provided they
were of direct benefit to the defendant.” (Palmer v. Gregg (1967) 65
Cal.2d 657, 660.) “It is one thing to require that the defendant be benefited
by services, it is quite another to measure the
reasonable value of those services by the value by which the
defendant was ‘benefited’ as a result of them.” (Maglica
v. Maglica (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 442, 450 [emphasis in original].) In Maglica,
it was determined that it was an error to instruct the jury to measure damages
by the resulting benefit that the defendant had received because it resulted in
the plaintiff because awarded a de facto ownership interest in the business,
which had not been contemplated by the parties. (Id. at p. 452.)
 
            By arguing
that it never used AVS’s work on web pages or work on a pharmaceutical product,
Playboy is arguing that it did not receive any resulting benefit from AVS’s
work. However, as articulated above, this is not the proper measure of quantum
meruit damages. It is conceivable that the benefit that Playboy received
from AVS’s work may have been minimal, but this does not establish that such a
benefit does not exist at all. Ultimately, this a question of fact that should
be left to the trier of fact to decide. (Nylund v. Madsen (1928) 94 Cal.
App. 441, 445.)
 
            Accordingly,
because Playboy has not show that AVS’s quantum meruit cause of action fails as
a matter of law, the motion summary adjudication on the third cause of action
is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Playboy’s
motion for summary judgment is denied. 
Its motion for summary adjudication is denied in its entirety.  


