  Case Number:  21STCV11187    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Ralph Karubian’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
of the second cause of action for FEHA harassment is GRANTED..
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
I.                  
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Ralph
Karubian (Defendant) moves for summary adjudication of Plaintiff Erek Gordon’s
(Plaintiff) second cause of action for harassment alleged against him
personally, on the grounds that the only harassment Plaintiff suffered was at
the hands of co-worker Mark Burgess, and Defendant cannot be personally liable
for harassment he did not participate in. (Motion at pp. 4–5.)
 
Plaintiff in
opposition argues that Defendant may be personally liable for harassment that
he knew about and failed to discipline, and which he ultimately abetted by
terminating Plaintiff’s employment in response to Plaintiff’s complaints.
(Opposition at pp. 7–13.)
 
Case
authority forecloses Plaintiff’s position. In Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1318, the court addressed whether a supervisor could
be personally liable for harassment for failing to address Plaintiff’s
complaints, after and because of which Plaintiff was discharged from
employment. (Id. at p. 1322.) The court held that although employees may
be individually liable for the harassment that they aid and abet, “mere inaction by a non-harassing supervisor does not
constitute aiding and abetting.” (Id. at p. 1327.) “[I]ndividual
supervisory employees should not be placed at risk of personal liability . . .
for personnel management decisions which have been delegated to the supervisor
by the employer, such as deciding whether to investigate or take action on a
complaint of sexual harassment.” (Id. at pp. 1327–1328.) “A
non-harassing supervisor who fails to take action on a sexual harassment
complaint by a subordinate has not engaged in personal conduct constituting
harassment, but rather has made a personnel management decision which in
retrospect may be considered to be inadequate or improper.” (Fiol v.
Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1331.) 
The situation is the same here. As with Fiol,
Plaintiff presents no evidence of harassing conduct on the part of Defendant
save the failure to discipline his harasser and his ultimate termination, both
of which constitute personnel management activity for which individual
liability does not lie.
The motion is therefore GRANTED. 