  Case Number:  19STCV36319    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
D.E. v. Regents of
the University of California, et al. Case No. 19STCV36319
Hearing Date June 25,
2024
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Leave to File a Second Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiff UCLA
graduate student sued the Regents for failure to provide reasonable
accommodations for her ADHD, learning disabilities and migraines. Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend to file a second amended complaint to add a theory of disparate
impact. Trial was previously continued at plaintiff’s request to October 14,
2024. 
 
Motions for leave to
amend the pleadings are discretionary. Code Civ. Proc. §473(a)(1). “California
courts have ‘a policy of great liberality in allowing amendments at any stage
of the proceeding.” Douglas v. Superior Court (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 155,
158. Denial of a request to amend is rarely justified, particularly where “the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party.” Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.
 
Plaintiff argues facts
giving rise to the disparate impact theory of discrimination were only discovered
recently based on University PMK depositions on March 14-15, 2024. Ferguson
Decl. ¶4-5. 
 
Acknowledging the strong
policy favoring amendment, defendant opposes based on unreasonable delay and
prejudice. 
 
Delay alone is not a
basis to deny a motion for leave to amend. Higgins v. Del Faro (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 (reversing judgment on the pleadings for defendant
after plaintiff's motion to amend made on the day of trial was denied;
defendant was not surprised or misled by the proposed amendment, and the short
delay in the trial which would result from the amendment did not prejudice
defendant). Courts allow leave to amend even up to the time of trial. Ventura
v. ABM Industries Inc. (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 267-268 (finding no
abuse of discretion in trial court granting leave to plaintiff to file second
amended complaint based on an ex parte application made the day before trial). 
 
The University argues plaintiff
unreasonably delayed. It argues plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration is directly
contradicted by plaintiff’s previously filed motions. Defendant points to plaintiff’s
May 2, 2023 MSA filing and the 7/21/23 Minute Order denying the MSA. Therefore,
defendant argues plaintiff’s counsel was aware of facts that he believed gave
rise to a disparate impact claim prior to May 2023, so plaintiff’s contention
that she needed the PMK discovery before she could amend is a fallacy. 
 
Plaintiff states the information
obtained in the PMK deposition required professional statistical analysis to be
useful. While plaintiff had some idea, after its MSA was denied, that the
complaint needed to plead a disparate impact theory, it was not until the PMK
deposition that the breadth and extent of the alleged disparate impact came to
light. Plaintiff served the notice of the PMK deposition on July 17, 2023, but
the University did not produce the PMK until March 14, 2024. 
 
Defendant contends it
would be prejudiced if the court grants leave to amend. 
 
“[I]t is an abuse of
discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or
prejudiced by the amendment.” Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1047, 1048. Amendment is granted “as long as the proposed
amendments ‘relate to the same general set of facts.” Id. See also, Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.
 
The allegations of the proposed
amendments involve the same set of facts and claims previously asserted. The
University does not claim surprise. The University does not argue the second
amended complaint raises new and materially different facts but does argue new
discovery would be required to defend against the new claim. However, the
University does not specify what additional discovery would be required. 
 
The University states it
would file a MSA against the disparate impact claim. The University argues it
should not be forced to reopen discovery and prepare a dispositive motion within
three days after the court rules on this motion for leave to amend. This
claimed prejudice can be alleviated via allowing the University to file a
dispositive motion, to be heard before a continued trial date. 
 
Courts liberally grant
motions to amend, up to and including the time of trial. Though plaintiff
raised the disparate impact theory in court on numerous prior occasions,
plaintiff contends she did not have the factual underpinnings to support an
amendment until the recent PMK depositions. The motion is GRANTED. 
 
However, the court will
inquire as to what discovery, if any, would be required on this new theory.
Defendant will have the opportunity to test the new theory via a dispositive motion
prior to trial, which may have to be continued to allow for such. The parties
should meet and confer regarding these issues and be prepared to discuss at the
hearing. GRANTED. The amended complaint to be filed within 5 court days.