 Case Number:  23SMCV00692    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Gonzales
v. Keller, et al., Case No. 23SMCV00692
Hearing
date June 25, 2024
Defendants
Keller and Shimizu’s Motion for Order Compelling Psychological IME
 
Plaintiff
sues for injuries sustained when defendants’ dog bit his penis.  Plaintiff had scarring, attended fifteen psychotherapy sessions and was
diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder. The complaint states plaintiff
“continues to suffer from residual pain, and has gone through depression,
anxiety, fear, and embarrassment from his injuries.” Compl. ¶9. Defendants noticed
an IME with psychiatrist, Christopher Thompson, M.D. Plaintiff objected.
Defendants move to compel. Neither side requested a discovery conference.
 
Where
any party seeks to obtain discovery by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of the court. Code Civ. Proc. §2032.310(a). 
 
Defendants
argue good cause for the IME, given the claimed psychiatric injuries, diagnosis
of PTSD and psychiatric and emotional distress. Plaintiff argues defendants
fail to demonstrate good cause because plaintiff has not claimed ongoing
emotional distress. 
 
A
showing of good cause is required for a psychiatric IME. Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840. While plaintiff may place his mental state
in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional distress, the
opposing party may not require psychiatric testing solely on the basis of
speculation that something of interest may surface. Id.
 
The
issue is whether plaintiff is claiming mental or emotional distress over and
above what is usually associated with the physical injuries claimed. Plaintiff
has not stated whether he plans to introduce psychological expert testimony or
the PTSD diagnosis at trial. As such, and given plaintiff’s claims of emotional
distress, psychiatric treatment and diagnosis, there is good cause to order a
psychiatric IME. It would be unfair to allow plaintiff to present such
testimony, while denying defendant the opportunity to have an expert evaluate
plaintiff as well.
 
On
April 26, 2024 defense counsel stated if plaintiff agreed not to mention
psychiatric treatment and agreed not to call a psychiatric expert, a
psychiatric IME would not be necessary. As of the reply, plaintiff’s counsel had
not negated an intent to retain a psychiatric expert. If plaintiff plans to
call an expert and provide testimony regarding his diagnosis, that is good
cause to allow an IME. If plaintiff agreed not to provide such testimony, the
IME would not be appropriate. 
 
Defense
counsel stated the amount of their CCP 998 offer in the papers. It is
inappropriate to offer such information to the court and violates the
confidentiality of settlement discussion. 
 
This
matter should have been addressed via an informal discovery conference. In the
future, if the parties have discovery disputes, they are to schedule an IDC. 
 
GRANTED.