  Case Number:  19STCV10866    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  28 


Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
  as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On March 29, 2019, Plaintiff Carmela Tyson
  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Walmart, Inc. (“Walmart”)
  and Does 1-100 for premises liability and negligence. Plaintiff later amended
  the complaint to include Defendants Tammy Cannon, Robin Abbott, Brenda
  Robert, J.T. Doe, Isabell Doe, Julio Doe, Gilbert Doe and Vincent Doe. 
On December 9, 2020, Walmart filed an answer. 
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel, K. Kevin
  Levian, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel to be heard on December 26,
  2023. The Court re-set the motion for December 14, 2023. 
On December 6, 2023, the Court granted Walmart’s
  motion for terminating sanctions and dismissed Plaintiff’s claims against
  Walmart with prejudice. 
The trial is currently scheduled to begin on January
  8, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s counsel, K. Kevin Levian, requests to be
  relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice
  of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
  section 284(2) must be directed to the client and must be made on the Notice
  of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b)
  Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding
  any other rule of court, no memorandum is required to be filed or served with
  a motion to be relieved as counsel. 
“(c)
  Declaration 
“The motion
  to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on the
  Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil
  (form MC-052). The declaration must state in general terms and without
  compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
  motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
  filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1). 
“(d)
  Service 
“The notice
  of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served
  on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The
  notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail. 
“(1)  If the notice is served on the client by
  mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
  declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A)   The service address is the current residence
  or business address of the client; or 
“(B)   The service address is the last known
  residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable
  to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so
  within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2)  If the notice is served on the client by
  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule
  2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic
  service address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in
  this rule, ‘current’ means that the address was confirmed within 30 days
  before the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely demonstrating that the
  notice was sent to the client's last known address and was not returned or no
  electronic delivery failure message was received is not, by itself,
  sufficient to demonstrate that the address is current. If the service is by
  mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b) applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The
  proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting
  Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be
  lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order must specify all
  hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of
  trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the court may set
  one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed, a copy of
  the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have
  appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
  relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
  client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel has submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and
  MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided a declaration stating: “Attorney-client
  communication issues on several occasions, it is to the benefit of Plaintiff
  to have Counsel with the same beliefs.” 
Counsel served Plaintiff at her last known address
  but could not confirm it was the current address or locate a more current
  address after (1) mailing the motion papers to Plaintiff’s last known address,
  return receipt requested, and (2) calling Plaintiff’s last known phone number or numbers. 
Counsel submitted proof of service on all parties
  that have appeared, including Plaintiff. The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiff’s counsel K.
  Kevin Levian to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Carmela Tyson. 
 Counsel will
  be relieved upon filing proof of service on the client of the Order Granting
  Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form
  MC-053). 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of
  this ruling with the Court within five days. 