 Case Number:  23STCV16620    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion that
the Truth of Matters of Defendant Westpark Loans’ Requests for Admission be
Deemed Admitted
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Westpark Equity Group, Inc.
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The RFAs Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
The Request for Sanctions
is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On July 17,
2023, Plaintiffs Adelina McCloud and Ellina Kelly, in propria persona, filed
their Complaint against Defendants P.S. Funding, Inc.; Denise Hayes Spears;
Sharif McCloud; Wilmington Trust, N.A.; Westpark Equity Group, Inc.
(erroneously sued as “Westpark Loans”); LendMe; Only Escrow; Jorge Lopez;
Stewart Title Company; Farzana Maiwandi; FPI Management Company; and Other
Persons Unknown Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title, Lien or Interest
in the Real Property Described in this Complaint Adverse to Plaintiffs. The
causes of action arise from an alleged wrong foreclosure, fraud, and
conversion. 
 
On August 18,
2023, Defendant Westpark Equity Group, Inc. filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On September
25, 2023, Defendant Denise Haye Spears filed her Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On December
8, 2023, Defendant Westpark Equity Group, Inc. filed its Motion that the Truth
of Matters of Defendant Westpark Loans’ Requests for Admission be Deemed
Admitted (“RFAs Motion”). In support of its RFAs Motion, Defendant Westpark
Equity Group, Inc. concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Thomas P. Aplin; (2)
Declaration of R. Scott Clift; and (3) Proof of Service. The RFAs Motion
includes a Request for Sanctions. 
 
No
oppositions or other responses have been filed to the discovery motions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure requires a
response from the party to whom the request for admissions is directed within
30 days after service of the request for admissions. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.250, subd. (a).)
 
If the party fails to serve a timely response,
“the party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection
to the requests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
 
The requesting party may then “move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanction
under Chapter 7.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
A court will deem requests admitted, “unless
it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed
has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the
requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.
It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
RFAs Motion
 
Defendant Westpark Equity Group, Inc. moves the Court to enter an order
deeming admitted the truth of all maters specified in its two sets of requests
for admissions (“RFAs”), which were both served upon Plaintiffs on August 19,
2023. (RFAs Motion, p. 7:10–12; Decl. Aplin, Exh. A.)
 
        Counsel Defendant Westpark Equity Group,
Inc., Thomas P. Aplin, declares that they have not received any responses to
the Requests for Admission from Plaintiffs. 
The motion is unopposed, and there is no evidence before the Court that
would indicate Plaintiffs responded to the RFAs. Rather, 
 
        The Court GRANTS the RFAs Motion. 
 
        The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
B. 
    The
Request for Sanctions
 
Defendant Westpark Equity Group, Inc. moves the Court for $4,000.00 in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs. (RFAs Motion, p. 7:10–12.) However,
given that Plaintiffs are litigating this matter in propria persona,
monetary sanctions would not be appropriate at this time. 
 
The Court DENIES the Request for Sanctions. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The RFAs Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        The RFAs are DEEMED ADMITTED. 
 
The Request for
Sanctions is DENIED. 
 