 Case Number:  23STCV00298    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Hassan Kayal dba Prime Build Construction to Continue Trial and
Related Motion and Discovery Dates. Joinder Therein of Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
B & A Fire Protection.
 
BACKGROUND
ALEX MESEONZNIK and LIKA MESEONZNIK (“Plaintiffs”) filed
this case for alleged construction defects against PRIME BUILD CONSTRUCTION,
INC.; PRIME BUILT CONSTRUCTION, INC.; REZA SARAFZADEH; HASSAN KAYAL; and BAHRAM
AGHANABI. Defendant/Cross-Complainant Hassan Kayal (“Kayal”) filed a
Cross-Complaint against several sub-contractors including B&A Fire
Protection (“B&A”).
Kayal now moves for a trial continuance and B&A
joins in the motion. Plaintiffs oppose the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Continuances of trial are disfavored and may be
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause. Cal Rules of Ct
3.1332(c). Circumstances that may show good cause include the substitution of
trial counsel if there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is
required in the interests of justice, the addition of a new party if the new
party and other parties have not had an opportunity to conduct discovery with
regards to the new party, or a party’s excused inability to obtain essential
discovery. Cal Rules of Ct 3.1332(c)(4), (6). In ruling on a motion to continue
the trial, the court should consider various factors, including the proximity
of the trial date, whether there was any previous continuance, the length of
the requested continuance, the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer
as a result of a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance. Cal Rules of Ct 3.1332(d)(1)-(3), (5), (10). Judges have
broad discretion in deciding whether to grant a request for a continuance. People
v. Caro (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 463, 499. 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint was filed in
September 2023. Kayal argues good cause exists for a trial continuance because
new counsel substituted into the case in October 2023 and filed a
Cross-Complaint in November 2023 against several sub-contractors. At the time
of the hearing on this motion, four cross-defendants have answered, and four cross-defendants
have yet to appear in the case (one cross-defendant has yet to be served). The
Court agrees that these circumstances constitute good cause for a trial
continuance. Four of the Cross-Defendants have filed answers and are in the
case. These new parties must have the opportunity to conduct discovery, and of
course, the parties already in the case should have the opportunity to seek
discovery from the new parties. New counsel for Kayal acted diligently by filing
the Cross-Complaint naming these sub-contractors within a month of substituting
into the case. 
Moreover, the other factors set forth in the Rules of
Court militate in favor of a continuance. This is the first request for a continuance.
The trial date in June 2023 is rapidly approaching and without a continuance, the
parties will not have an opportunity to complete discovery and then have an opportunity
to mediate the case with all of the parties’ participation. Plaintiffs, who
filed a First Amended Complaint only a few months before the filing of the
Cross-Complaint, have not pointed to any prejudice that would result to them as
a result of a continuance. 
Plaintiffs contend that several of the new
cross-defendants have nothing to do with the construction defects at issue in
Plaintiffs’ case and that Kayal’s Cross-Complaint instead relates to claims of
indemnity, contribution, and negligence. Plaintiffs contend that rather than
continue the trial, the Court should sever those claims for the sake of
judicial efficiency. But severance would lead to great inefficiencies by
causing duplicative presentations of proof at different trial phases, because
Plaintiffs allege that subcontractors were involved in the alleged construction
defects. See, e.g., First Amended Complaint, ¶ 16 (“each Defendant, including
Does 1-100, each Seller and Developer and each Builder, Contractor and
Subcontractor involved in the construction, owed a duty to Plaintiffs….”).
Where a separate trial before a different jury would involve duplicative
adjudications, to the detriment of judicial economy, it is entitled to some
consideration in the court’s exercise of discretion. Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847,
913.  The Court concludes that severance will
not promote the interests of justice; rather the interests of justice militate
in favor of continuing the trial. 
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted. Trial set for 6/17/24 is
advanced and continued to a date to be determined at the hearing in consultation
with counsel. All related cutoff dates shall be based upon the continued trial
date.