 Case Number:  21STCV07846    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed: 2/26/21
Trial Date: 4/17/24
Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
¿ 
Hearing Date:           4/3/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV07846 MARKUS DERRELL SMITH vs PLURIA
WILLIAM MARSHALL, et al.
Motion:                    MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT
Moving Party:           Defendant Paula Marshall
Defendant Wave Community Newspapers
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                     Sufficient
¿¿ 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED.
                                
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT IS DENIED.
¿¿
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
¿ 
Legal Standard
¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors
in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
¿ 
Factual Background and Analysis
 
This matter involves a multi-vehicle auto
accident that occurred on May 28, 2019. On May 11, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present
complaint. On November 9, 2023, this matter was consolidated with two other
cases involving the same accident. The trial date was set for April 17, 2024.
On March 7, 2024, Defendant filed a motion 
requesting the Court to continue the trial date by at least 150 days for
several reasons: 1) Plaintiff's new allegation of lost wages, 2) the
unavailability of Defendants Pluria William Marshall, Jr. and Paula Marshall from
April 17, 2024, to April 30, 2024, 3) the recent substitution of Horton,
Oberrecht & Kirkpatrick as new counsel for Defendants, 4) Defendants’
counsel's engagement in other trials from May to September 2024, and 5) mutual
agreement between parties to continue the trial date and extend expert
discovery.
 
Plaintiff opposes the reopening of fact
discovery but agrees to the trial continuance and extension of expert
discovery. Plaintiff's counsel clarified that Plaintiff is not seeking lost
wages after mistakenly stating so during his deposition. Given the age of the
case and the ample time for discovery, the Court is inclined to allow only a
brief continuance. Considering Defendant's unavailability in April, the recent
substitution of defense counsel, and Plaintiff's agreement to extend the trial
and expert discovery, the Court will extend the trial date by 60 days. Only
expert discovery will be tied to the new trial date. NO FURTHER CONTINUANCES WILL BE GRANTED.
The new Trial
Date is set for June  __, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status
Conference is continued to June  _ _, 2024, at 10:00
a.m. With the exception of expert discovery, all other case-related deadlines
will not follow the new trial date.
 
MOTION
FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT
 
On
March 25, 2024, and pursuant to the Parties' stipulation, the Court ordered the
default against Defendant Wave Community Newspapers, Inc. in ALONZO WARD v.
PLURIA MARSHALL, et al., Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles,
Case No.: 21STCV11513, to be vacated. Consequently, Wave Community Newspapers,
Inc.'s motion for relief from default is moot and therefore DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.