 Case Number:  22STCV31601    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S.
Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
  
Hearing
Date:                4/3/2024
at 1:30 p.m.
Case
No./Name:          22STCV31601
MARINA BURSTEIN vs JULIANA GREGORY
Motion:                              MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT NEUROCONDUCT
PSYCHIATRIC EXAMINATION
Moving
Party:                 Defendant
The Estate of George J. Girey
Responding
Party:      Plaintiff
Notice:                                Sufficient
   
Ruling:                               DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT IME IS GRANTED.
 
                                DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT NEUROPSYCHIATRIC EXAMINATION
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT IME
Background
On
September 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed the current case related to a
car-to-pedestrian accident that occurred on November 15, 2020, where she
reportedly collided with the windshield of a car and was subsequently thrown to
the ground. In 2021, Plaintiff sought treatment from orthopedic surgeon Dr.
Jonathan Oheb due to ongoing pain in her knee and ankle. On February 23, 2022,
Defendant arranged for an Independent Medical Examination (IME) of Plaintiff by
Dr. Irwin Bliss, an orthopedic surgeon. This examination focused on Plaintiff’s
right knee and left foot. Dr. Bliss reported that the most significant injury,
located in the left knee, had healed without sequelae and noted minor issues
that were not post-traumatic in origin. Furthermore, he found a discrepancy in
foot length to be within normal limits. 
 
During
Plaintiff's recent deposition on January 11, 2024, she stated that she
experiences on going pain and difficulties in her left foot, right knee, and
shin, contrary to Dr. Bliss and Dr. Oheb’s assessments. Based on this,
Defendant moves the court for an updated IME on Plaintiff’s left foot, right
knee and shin. Defendant opposes the motion on the grounds that Defendant is
only allowed one IME as a matter of law and argues that there is no good cause
for a second one.
Legal Standard
Except
for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is
permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court
order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made
only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   
The
examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the
action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly
related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the
litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior
Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.) 
Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be
necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number
of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any
potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See
Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) 
The
burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or other evidence) that
the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the action.  A court order for physical or mental
examination must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1)
relevancy to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e.,
allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for
obtaining it elsewhere.  (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)
 
Analysis
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff's knee, ankle, and leg injuries are in
controversy. The crux of the current motion centers on whether Defendant is
entitled to a second, updated Independent Medical Examination (IME) of these
same injuries. An updated IME is deemed reasonable and permissible under
circumstances where there has been progression of the injury, attributable to
natural progression or other contributing factors, rendering the findings from
the original IME obsolete or no longer reflective of the Plaintiff's current condition.
Dr.
Jonathan Oheb's examinations of Plaintiff in 2021 and 2022 characterized many
of Plaintiff's conditions as asymptomatic, and noted that much of Plaintiff’s bruising
had resolved. Similarly, Dr. Irwin Bliss, in his initial IME, found that the
injuries to Plaintiff's knee and ankle were minor, had healed, and were not the
result of the accident. However, in stark contrast, during her deposition in
January 2024, Plaintiff painted a markedly different picture. She described
being symptomatic, experiencing significant pain, and stated that the bruising
had never resolved. A follow-up MRI indicated significant scarring in the area
of the bone bruise. Moreover, Plaintiff reported that her feet continued to
grow in length, signifying an aggravation or progression of her condition. She alleges
persistent pain and suggests that her injuries had not only remained unhealed
but had also worsened, adversely affecting her daily activities. This stands in
stark contrast to Dr. Bliss and Dr. Oheb’s original assessment of Plaintiff's
injuries as minor and healed. Thus, the court finds good cause for Defendant to
obtain an updated IME based on Plaintiff’s own representation of the
progression of her injuries. Accordingly, the present motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is hereby ORDERED to sit for her updated IME within 20 days of today.
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT NEUROPSYCHIATRIC EXAMINATION
 
Legal
Standard
“Unless otherwise
limited by order of the court …, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action …, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) 
Where any party
seeks to obtain discovery by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave
of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) The Court shall grant
the motion only for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)

A motion for an examination shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will
perform the examination and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.310, subd. (b).)   
Analysis
Defendants
attempted but have been unsuccessful in obtaining Plaintiff's consent to
undergo a mental examination. Plaintiff stated that she would not voluntarily
agree to a mental examination absent a court order. Defendant has met its
obligation to meet and confer. 
Plaintiff
does not dispute that her mental condition is at issue, as she is allegedly
suffering from life-altering mental conditions such as severe anxiety,
depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and seeking over $1.5 million in
pain and suffering. (Opposition at p.2.) This is also Defendant's first request
for a mental examination of Plaintiff. The Court finds good cause for
Plaintiff's mental examination, as her mental condition is clearly relevant and
at issue, and Defendant is entitled to a defense concerning Plaintiff's claims
for mental/psychological damages. Accordingly, the Court will order Plaintiff
to sit for her mental examination.
However,
Defendant failed to provide a list of diagnostics and procedures to be performed
on Plaintiff, as required by CCP section 2032.310(b) and Carpenter v.
Superior Ct. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 249, 259. Consequently, Defendant is ordered
to serve and file a detailed list of all tests to be performed on Plaintiff
within seven days from today.  Accordingly,
the Court continues the hearing on this Motion until April __, 2024, at 1:30 p.m.  
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.