 Case Number:  23STCV03843    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Department 27 
Tentative Ruling 
¿¿ 
Hearing Date:           4/3/2024 at 1:30 p.m. 
Case No./Name.:      23STCV03843 ALLSTATE NORTHBROOK vs
EDVIN FRANCISCO HERNANDEZ 
Motion Name:           MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
Moving Party:           Plaintiff Allstate Northbrook
Indemnity Company 
Responding Party:    Defendant Edvin Francisco
Hernandez Chivalan
Notice:                     Sufficient 
¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS
GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
 
Factual Background and Analysis
On February 22, 2021, Defendant
Edvin Francisco Hernandez Chivalan was involved in a collision with an
underinsured motorist. Defendant and Plaintiff, Allstate Northbrook Indemnity
Company, are in arbitration relating to the underlying UIM claim. On February
22, 2023, Plaintiff Allstate filed a complaint in interpleader against
Defendant Hernandez. On November 6, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Defendant's
deposition for December 7, 2023. On December 6, 2023, the parties corresponded,
and Defendant’s counsel confirmed that Hernandez would be appearing for his
deposition the next day on December 7, 2023. However, on that scheduled
deposition date, Defendant Hernandez failed to appear, leading Plaintiff to
obtain an affidavit of non-appearance. Plaintiff then attempted to meet and
confer with Defendant’s counsel regarding Hernandez’s non-appearance and to
seek alternative deposition dates; Defendant’s counsel failed to respond.
Consequently, Plaintiff now moves the Court to compel Defendant’s deposition.
Defendant did not file an opposition.
 
        It
is undisputed that Plaintiff noticed Defendant's deposition for December 7,
2023, and Defendant did not file an objection. Furthermore, Defendant's counsel
confirmed that Defendant would attend his deposition the day before the
deposition. However, Defendant Hernandez did not appear for his deposition.
 
        Plaintiff
attempted to meet and confer to secure alternative dates for Hernandez's
deposition, but these attempts were unsuccessful. Plaintiff has met all the
requirements to compel Defendant’s deposition. Thus, the present motion is
GRANTED and Defendant Hernandez is hereby ORDERED to appear for his deposition
within 20 days of today.
 
Sanctions 
 
Defendant’s failure to attend his
deposition forced Plaintiff to incur attorney's fees to file the present
motion. Plaintiff requests attorneys' fees in the amount of $886.65, and the Court finds this amount reasonable. Defendant
and his
counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $886.65 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the
case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date and time,
counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.     
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave. 
 