 Case Number:  23AHCV01729    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SILVESTRE COSIO, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FCA US
   LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01729
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 2,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On November 28, 2023, defendant FCA US
LLC (“Defendant”) filed this motion to compel plaintiffs Silvestre Cosio and
Cynthia Zambrano’s (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) further responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 21 and 25. Defendant also requests
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,750 to be imposed against Plaintiffs’
and their counsel of record. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ responses
to RFP Nos. 21 and 25 consist of meritless objections. RFP No. 21 and No. 25. RFP
No. 21 sought “[a]ll DOCUMENTS reflecting any social media post made by YOU
concerning the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” RFP No. 25 sought “[a]ll DOCUMENTS reflecting
any moving violation issued to YOU while driving the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
Defendant argues that the documents demanded relate to the “factual basis under
Plaintiffs’ claims and Plaintiffs’ use and impressions of the Subject Vehicle.”
(Motion, p. 5.) In response to both requests, Plaintiffs asserted objections on
the grounds that they are vague, ambiguous, compound, overly broad, and seeks
information which is equally burdensome and harassing. Plaintiff also objected
on the grounds that the request potentially sought information protected by the
attorney-client privilege, work product doctrine, and Plaintiffs’ right to
privacy. Plaintiffs add in response to RFP No. 25 that the request is “not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence” and can
“only be intended to embarrass or harass [them].” 
In Plaintiffs’ opposition brief, they
state that this motion is moot because supplemental responses were served on
March 8, 2024. Plaintiffs are correct that their recently served responses
supplant the ones at issue in the motion. Therefore, the Court need not address
Defendant’s request (which is brought up for the first time in its reply brief)
to strike Plaintiffs’ objections. Accordingly, the motion is denied as moot. 
Next, the Court addresses the issue of
sanctions. Sanctions may be awarded under the Discovery Act in favor of a party
who files a motion to compel discovery, even if the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed. (CRC 3.1348, subd.
(a).) A court has discretion not to impose sanctions where it finds
“substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (h).) There is
“substantial justification” where there exist reasonable grounds to believe
that the objection was valid when made and that opposition to the discovery
therefore was justified. (See e.g., Foothill Properties v. Lyon/Copley
Corona Associates (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1542, 1557-1558; Doe v. United
States Swimming, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1434.) Notwithstanding
the outcome of the particular discovery motion, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction ordering that any party or attorney who fails to confer as
required pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020.) 
Plaintiffs did not discuss in their
opposition brief how the objections they made to RFP Nos. 21 and 25 were valid.
They also did not show why Defendant would be required to further meet and
confer after Plaintiffs’ counsel definitively stated that no supplemental
responses to those document requests would be served. Defendant already sent a
meet and confer letter dated October 25, 2023; in response, Plaintiffs chose to
supplement some of their initial responses and represented that they would not
supplement their responses to RFP Nos. 21 and 25. Therefore, sanctions would be
warranted against Plaintiffs. However, Defendant does not provide any
explanation supporting its request for $1,750 in “reasonably incurred costs and
attorneys’ fees.” Defense counsel does not identify his hourly rate or how many
hours he spent on drafting this motion. The Court additionally notes that Defendant
should have filed two motions and two filing fees because Defendant is
requesting orders compelling two sets of further responses, one set for each plaintiff.
Therefore, any monetary sanctions would be conditioned on Defendant’s payment
of an additional filing fee and filing proof of payment with the Court. 
In light of the foregoing, unless
defense counsel is prepared to discuss his calculation of attorneys’ fees at
the hearing, Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Dated
this 2nd
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 