  Case Number:  19STCV34640    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE R. ROCALEON, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
   MOTOR COMPANY, Inc., et al.
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV34640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SEAL EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR SUMMARY
   JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 2,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Defendants Harley-Davidson Motor
Company Group, LLC (erroneously sued as Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc.)
and TMCHB, Inc. dba Huntington Beach Harley-Davidson (erroneously sued as The
Motorcycle Company, LLC) move for an order sealing portions of the Declaration
of Leah Orloff in support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication (“Orloff Declaration”). 
The Court notes that the amount of
material now sought to be sealed is significantly less than the material that
was originally redacted from the motion for summary judgment and supporting
papers filed on October 11, 2023. (These redacted versions also do not include
a cover identifying them as public with redactions as required by CRC
2.551(b)(5).) Therefore, as an initial matter, the summary judgment motion and
supporting papers must be re-filed. Assuming that Defendants have not changed
the substance of their motion, these filings will not impact the hearing date
for their summary judgment motion nor will the hearing need to be re-noticed
because Plaintiff has already been served with an unredacted copy of the
summary judgment motion. 
Next, the Court acknowledges that
Defendants have adequately identified the specific materials that they wish to
have sealed in their amended notice of motion and amended proposed order. Yet,
the Court still cannot rule on the merits of the motion. A redacted copy of the
Orloff Declaration was filed on April 5, 2024, and a courtesy copy of the redacted
Orloff Declaration was received by the Court on April 9, 2024. However, no
unredacted copy was lodged, making this motion incomplete. Also, the most
recent Orloff Declaration appears different from the one initially lodged with
the Court and marked as received on January 30, 2024 (which was actually included
as part of the “Declaration of Dommond E. Lonnie in support of Defendants’
Motion to File Under Seal”). Specifically, the initial Exhibit BB included many
more pages of engineering drawings while the most recent one only has 3 pages. Also,
the pages of the initial filing were not Bates-labeled, therefore, the Court
cannot independently cross-reference the documents and determine which pages have
been included in Exhibit BB of the most recently-filed Orloff Declaration and rule
on the motion. The Court recognizes that there was a supplemental Declaration
of Leah Orloff in support of the motion to seal lodged on February 2, 2024,
and that this document contains Bates-labeled drawings. But even if the Court assumed
that the Bates-labeled drawings are the same, the Court does not possess an unredacted
copy of the Orloff Declaration in support of the summary judgment motion that
will, in fact, be sealed.
Accordingly, the hearing on this motion
is therefore continued to June 4, 2024. Defendants are ordered to lodge an
unredacted copy of the Orloff Declaration no later than 5 court days before the
hearing. The cover of the unredacted copy must identify it as “May Not Be
Examined Without Court Order – Contains material from conditionally sealed
record.” 
The lodged copy of the unredacted Declaration
of Donnie E. Lommond and supplemental declaration of Leah Orloff are returned
to Defendants. 
Dated
this 2nd
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 