 Case Number:  23AHCV00002    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



TOVIAS ESPINOZA, by and through his Successor in Interest,
   Socorro Cabral, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ALHAMBRA
   HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENTRE, LP dba ALHAMBRS HEALTHCARE AND WELLNESS
   CENTRE, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00002
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF SCHLOMO RECHNITZ
   AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 2,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On January 3, 2023, plaintiff Socorro
Cabral (“Plaintiff”), individually and as successor in interest to Tovias
Espinoza (“Espinoza”), filed this action against defendant Shlomo Rechnitz
(“Defendant”), Alhambra Healthcare & Wellness Centre, LP dba Alhambra
Healthcare and Wellness Centre (“AHWC”), and Boardwalk West Financial Services,
LLC (“Boardwalk”). 
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff served
Defendant with a notice of deposition. Defendant served objections on November
30, 2023. After meeting and conferring, Defendant filed a motion for a
protective order on April 4, 2024. Plaintiff then filed this motion to compel
Defendant’s deposition on April 8, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may
move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant owned,
operated, managed, participated in, authorized, and/or directed the conduct of AHWC’s
skilled nursing facility (“Facility”) in such a way that led to the injuries
and death of Espinoza. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “intentionally
underfunded and understaffed the facility by creating a web of entities to
siphon out the revenue from the facility.” (Motion, p. 5.) Plaintiff also
attaches excerpts of Defendant’s deposition testimony in another case in which
he testified that he owns or formerly owned the Facility, the property upon
which the Facility operates, financial entities that loan and charge interest
to the Facility, and companies that provide administrative services. (Sobati
Decl., ¶¶6-8, Exhibits F-H.) Plaintiff also attaches a disclosure and Medi-Cal
cost report which shows that in 2021, AHWC paid out significant sums of money
to entities owned or affiliated with Defendant, including $979,943 for its
lease of the property to Eretz Alhambra Properties, LLC.  
Plaintiff also argues that Defendant
must be deposed because the administrator of the Facility, Luke Magsila, has
already been deposed but denied having any knowledge or information about the
payments to these entities affiliated with Defendant. Plaintiff contends that
Defendant is the best individual to provide information about the entities he
owns, the services those entities purportedly provided, and their relationship
to the Facility. 
In opposition, Defendant argues that he
should not be deposed because he is an “apex” employee. Defendant cites to Liberty
Mutual Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282 (“Liberty
Mutual”), but this case is factually inapposite. The chief executive
officer in Liberty Mutual submitted a declaration showing he had no knowledge,
as did the chief executive officer’s assistant. In comparison, Defendant
submits no evidence besides the deposition transcript of Mr. Magsila, who
denied having any knowledge about the entities affiliated with Defendant or the
Facility’s payments to those entities, and denied having any control over the
payments that the Facility made to co-defendant Boardwalk. Therefore, Defendant
has failed to show that he is an apex employee who should not be deposed. Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED and Defendant is ordered to appear for his deposition within
30 days. 
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction... in favor of the party
who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party whom the
deponent is affiliated...” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(c).) Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $1,650 against Defendant. Plaintiff’s
counsel declares that he does not typically charge his clients an hourly rate
because they are contingency cases, but a reasonable hourly rate would be $550
per hour. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the reduced
amount of $1,100 consisting of 2 hours at the reasonable hourly rate of $550,
to be paid within 20 days of the date of this order. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED. Defendant
is ordered to appear for his deposition within 30 days.
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to pay $1,100 within 20 days of the date of this
order. 
 
Dated
this 2nd
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 