 Case Number:  22AHCV00123    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



XUEYUN ZOU, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YAO GUO,
   et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00123
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 2, 2024



 
On March 12, 2024,
defendant/cross-complainant Gosdom, Inc. (“Gosdom”) filed this motion for an
order compelling cross-defendant Donghong Deng (“Deng”) to comply with her
prior statements of compliance in response to Gosdom’s Requests for Production
of Documents (“RFP”) Nos. 2 and 11. By way of background, Gosdom asserts that
Deng misappropriated funds paid to her and claimed to act as an officer on
behalf of plaintiff DL Trucking, Inc. 
RFP No. 2 sought communication records
between Deng and Gosdom’s officer, Yao Guo aka Vanessa Guo (“Guo”), from
January 2019 to the present. RFP No. 11 requested all representations allegedly
made by Guo to Deng from January 2019 to the present. Deng agreed to produce all
non-privileged documents in her possession, custody, or control that are
responsive to RFP Nos. 2 and 11; she also stated that no documents are being
withheld based on privilege. 
On March 20, 2024, Deng filed an
opposition brief and a supporting declaration from counsel arguing that the
motion is moot because responsive documents were produced on March 17, 2024. Defense
counsel, Jorn S. Rossi, stated that the documents were not previously produced
due to oversight. 
On March 29, 2024, Gosdom filed a reply
brief challenging Deng’s assertion that responsive documents had been produced.
Gosdom’s counsel attaches the entire supplemental production of 20 pages to
show that the only documents produced include a loan and security agreement
between DL Trucking and Gosdom, a secured promissory note, a receipt showing a
payment from Deng in the amount of $100, a wire transfer request, an unsigned assignment
of claim between Deng and Guo, and a tax form reporting interest income. 
Gosdom argues that the production
should have included emails and written messages and that the newly-produced
documents do not relate to any of Guo’s alleged representations. The Court
disagrees with this sweeping statement. Some of the documents, such as the
receipt and wire transfer request, can be interpreted to constitute
communications between Deng and Guo. Furthermore, Gosdom provides no
evidentiary basis for the assertion that those emails or written messages even
exist. Guo, as Gosdom’s officer, did not submit a declaration averring to the
existence of those emails or written messages, or that she and Deng even
communicated through email or in writing. 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.  
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless the court finds the
party subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or there are
other circumstances making the imposition of sanctions unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).) 
Deng requests that the Court impose $1,080
in sanctions against Gosdom and its attorney of record. Deng does not explain
how this amount was calculated and provides no evidence substantiating the
reasonableness of this amount. Accordingly, the request for sanctions is DENIED.

Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 2nd
day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 