 Case Number:  23PDUD03897    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  P  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHEAST DISTRICT
 



RIDERWOOD
  USA INC., a California corporation,
 
                          Plaintiff, 
 
 
                  vs. 
 
 
NKM Capital Group LLC, a
  California limited liability company; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
 

                       Defendants.                             

 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)
)
)


Case No.: 23PDUD03897
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER IN PART, AND DENYING MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date:   December
  15, 2023
Time:  8:30 a.m.
Dept.:  P



 
          I.        INTRODUCTION
          This is an unlawful detainer action with an unusual issue. Plaintiff
Riderwood USA Inc. (Riderwood) alleges that Defendant NKM Capital Group LLC
(NKM) failed to mitigate noxious odors for the commercial premises at 400 South
Baldwin Ave., Space 9015, Arcadia, CA 91007 (Subject Property). Defendant NKM
operates a food stand at the Subject Property, Santa Anita Mall, selling fries,
chicken, and drinks. Riderwood served a Three-Day Notice to Surrender
Possession on October 16, 2023.
          Defendant NKM Capital Group filed the instant demurrer and
motion to strike on November 20, 2023. Plaintiff Riderwood filed an opposition
to the Motion to Strike on November 22, 2023. NKM filed replies in support of
the demurrer and motion to strike on December 8, 2023.  For the reasons that follow, the demurrer is overruled
in part, but sustained on one procedural issue. The motion to strike is denied.
 
II. DEMURRER
A.
Law Governing Unlawful Detainers  
An unlawful detainer action can be filed at any time
while the defendant is in actual possession of the property. Unlawful detainer
actions are summary proceedings. (CCP § 1161.) The timeline for pretrial
proceedings is short. Defendants have five days to respond to a pleading,
including by demurrer. (CCP § 1167.)  
Pleading requirements for unlawful detainers are
contained in CCP section 1166. The requirements include verification,
allegation of the facts on which plaintiff seeks to recover, and a description
of the premises. A complaint grounded in CCP section 1161(2) (non-payment of
rent) must plead the amount of rent in default. (CCP § 1166(a)(4).) The
pleading must also allege the method used to serve notice on the defendant;
this requirement may be satisfied by using the Judicial Council form or by
attaching proof of service of the notice. (CCP § 1166(a)(5).) 
B. Law Governing Demurrers
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a
complaint fails to state a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A demurrer tests
the legal sufficiency of a complaint. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  
Code
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10(f) provides for a demurrer where a pleading is
uncertain. (CCP § 430.10(f).) Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and are
only sustained where a pleading is so incomprehensible a defendant cannot
reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v.
Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
The
requirement that a party must meet and confer prior to filing a demurrer does
not apply to unlawful detainer proceedings. (CCP § 430.41(d).) 
          C. Analysis
i.
The demurrer is overruled as to CCP 430.10(e)
          NKM demurs to the
sole cause of action against it on grounds that the Complaint (1) fails to
state facts sufficient for a cause of action and (2) the pleading is uncertain.
 
          NKM urges that the Complaint for unlawful detainer fails to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against it. Specifically, NKM
urges that the description of the bad odor is insufficient.  It argues that Riderwood has an obligation to
provide a more detailed description of the odor or describe the source of the
order. (Demurrer, p. 5: 12-16.) This argument is unpersuasive. The Court directs
NKM to  ¶¶ 9 and 10 of the Complaint where
the odor is described as “offensive” and “foul and terrible”. NKM has failed to
cite any case law or statutory authority to support its claim that a more
detailed description of the odor is required. 
Secondly,
NKM urges that ordinary business operations under its lease may cause odor, and
therefore, any alleged odor is not a breach. (Demurrer, p. 5: 17.) The Court
notes that the lease provides that Defendant NKM is in the business of selling
various food items. To the extent that odors are a natural by-product of the
preparation of the various fried foods NKM sells, the Court does not consider
this as an appropriate argument on demurrer.
          NKM then urges it complied with the lease term that
necessitated installation of a ductless ventilation system, and thus the cause
of action for unlawful detainer should be time-barred. (Demurrer, p. 6: 1-8.)
NKM signed the lease in 2015. The statute of limitations for breach of a
written contract is 4 years. (CCP § 337.) To the extent that NKM is urging that
this is the applicable statute of limitations for this action, the day when the
lease started is irrelevant. The fact that NKM did install the ventilation
system is irrelevant. The statute of limitations begins to run after the
breach, which in this case is the odor. Unless NKM is alleging that the odor
started at the beginning of their tenancy in 2015, this argument has no merit
as stated. 
          NKM then urges that the demurrer should be sustained as the
Complaint failed to state facts regarding the landlord’s compliance with its
obligations under the lease upon default. (Demurrer, p. 6: 9-10.) NKM’s argument
is insufficient in this regard. 
According to CCP Section 1166, unlawful detainer complaints require a verification, allegations of the facts on
which plaintiff seeks to recover, and a description of the premises. (CCP §
1166(a).) A statement of landlord compliance with lease provisions, while it
might possibly be a basis for an affirmative defense, is not required. 
          Lastly, NKM urges that the demurrer
must be sustained as the complaint is not properly verified. (Demurrer, p. 7:
3.) Per CCP Section 1166(a), unlawful detainer complaints must be verified. (CCP
§ 1166(a).) According to CCP Section 446(a), if a pleading is verified by a
non-party, the verifying individual shall submit an affidavit setting forth why
the verification was not by one of the parties. (CCP § 446(a).) Here, the
complaint is verified by Donna Guerrero, the Senior General Manager for Avison
Young, Plaintiff’s real estate agent. She states that she “oversees the
day-to-day operations of  the Premises
and has personal knowledge of the defendant’s default. Plaintiff does not have
such knowledge itself, thus I am verifying this complaint.” The Court finds the
affidavit sufficiently complies with CCP Sections 1166(a) and 446(a). 
          ii. The demurrer is overruled as to CCP
430.10(f)
Additionally,
NKM urges that the Complaint is uncertain as Plaintiff does not state exactly what
the offending odor is. (Demurrer, p.5: 10-12.) However, demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored and only sustained when the pleading is so uncertain
that defendant cannot respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) The Court declines to rule that a generalized description
of an odor (e.g., “foul and terrible”) meets this high threshold. Accordingly,
the demurrer is not sustained on basis of uncertainty. 
          iii. No Proof of Service of the 3-Day Notice
The
Court does note, however, that the Complaint does not include a proof of
service of the 3-Day Notice to Quit the Premises. On this basis (and this basis
alone), Plaintiff is granted 5 days’ leave to amend the complaint. (CCP §
1166(a)(5) and (d)(2).)
 
III.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
          A. Legal Standard
          Code Civ. Proc. Section 436 provides: “The court may,
upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (CCP § 436.) 
          B. The Motion to Strike is Denied
Defendant NKM moves to strike the entire complaint
on the grounds that the complaint is not properly verified. (Motion to Strike, p.
3: 15-16.) Per CCP Section 1166(a), unlawful detainer complaints must be
verified. (CCP § 1166(a).) Per CCP Section 446(a), if a pleading is verified by
a non-party, the verifying individual shall submit an affidavit setting forth
why the verification was not by one of the parties. (CCP § 446(a).)
 As noted
above, the Court concludes that Ms. Guerrero’s verification is adequate.   The motion to strike is therefore denied.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
           The demurrer is overruled
in part. The motion to strike is denied.
          Riderwood is given 5 days to amend the complaint, to include
a proof of service of the 3-Day Notice to Vacate the Premises. 
NKM is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
          
Dated:                                                              _______________________________
                                                                              MARGARET L. OLDENDORF
                                                                       JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT