  Case Number:  22STCV38039    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CIRO R. PINEDA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38039
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER STRIKING AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES;
  DENYING MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED ANSWER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 5, 2024



 
On June 6, 2023, Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District filed an answer to Plaintiff Ciro R. Pineda’s first
amended complaint.
On
May 22, 2024, Defendant filed a stipulation and proposed order to file an amended
answer including new forty-second and forty-third affirmative defenses.
On
May 24, 2024, the Court declined to sign the order and set an Order to Show Cause
why each of the affirmative defenses should not be stricken under Code of Civil
Procedure section 436 (b) as not being affirmative defenses and/or being improperly
pleaded in accordance with law.  The Court
also stated that Defendant may seek to amend its answer by motion or at the time
of Defendant’s response to the OSC.
On
June 5, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to file an amended answer.  Defendant did not file anything else regarding
the OSC.
The
answer to a complaint must contain the “general or specific denial of the material
allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant” and a “statement of
any new matter constituting a defense.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subds. (b)(1)-(2).) 
“The phrase ‘new matter’ refers to something relied on by a defendant which
is not put in issue by the plaintiff.”  (Walsh
v. West Valley Mission Community College District (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1532,
1546.)  Where the answer sets forth facts
showing some essential allegation of the complaint is not true, such facts are not
new matter but are denials.  (Ibid.)  The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather than
evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is required as in pleading a complaint.  The answer must aver facts as carefully and with
as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and which are alleged
in the complaint.  (FPI Development, Inc.
v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.)  Defenses must be pleaded in the nature of “yes,
the allegations [of the complaint] are true, but . . .”  (Id. at p. 383.)
Defendant’s
first and eleventh affirmative defenses are not truly affirmative defenses.  An allegation that Plaintiff’s claims fail to
state a cause of action is a legal assertion that does not depend on factual allegations.
The
second through ninth, fourteenth, fifteenth, seventeenth, twenty-fourth, twenty-fifth,
twenty-ninth, thirtieth, thirty-sixth through thirty-eighth, and forty-first affirmative
defenses do not contain any ultimate facts.
The
tenth affirmative defense alleges that Plaintiff has not sustained any damages.  This is not an affirmative defense; rather, this
is an allegation that Plaintiff cannot establish every element of his claims.
The
thirty-first affirmative defense alleges that “any judgment entered herein may be
paid by periodic payments rather than in a lump sum.”  Similarly, the thirty-second affirmative defense
alleges, “Defendants are entitled to a reduction of any judgment against Defendants
for collateral source payments paid or obligated to be paid for services or benefits
provided prior to the commencement of trial.” 
The fortieth affirmative defense alleges that Defendant is not liable for
punitive damages.  The forty-second affirmative
defense states, “Defendant reserves the right to assert additional affirmative defenses
and to supplement, alter, or change its answer and defenses upon revelation of more
definitive facts and upon undertaking of discovery and investigation in this matter.”  These are not affirmative defenses.
The
twenty-third affirmative defense alleges that Plaintiff failed to file a certificate
of merit pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1, subdivisions (f) and
(g).  This is false.  Plaintiff did file certificates of merit, and
upon review of the certificates of merit, the Court granted Plaintiff permission
to serve Defendant in a February 9, 2023 order.
The
thirty-ninth affirmative defense alleges that Defendant is not liable for an injury
resulting from the act or omission of one of the Defendant’s employees where the
employee is immune from liability, but there are no ultimate facts about any employee’s
immunity.
The
Court orders the above affirmative defenses STRICKEN from Defendant’s answer that
was filed on June 6, 2023.
The
twelfth, sixteenth, eighteenth through twenty-second, twenty-sixth through twenty-eighth,
and thirty-third through thirty-fifth affirmative defenses allege that Defendant,
a public entity, is not liable or has immunity under certain Government Code sections.  These affirmative defenses are appropriately pleaded.
The
thirteenth affirmative defense alleging the statute of limitations does not require
alleging facts, but it does require pleading the specific section and subdivision.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 458; Martin v. Van Bergen
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 84, 91.)  This affirmative
defense is appropriately pleaded.
Defendant’s
motion for leave to file an amended answer seeks to add new forty-second and forty-third
affirmative defenses under Education Code sections 35330 and 44808.  These are appropriate affirmative defenses.  However, the motion is DENIED with respect to
filing the proposed amended answer in its current form with all other affirmative
defenses.
Defendant
is granted leave to file an amended answer that remedies the defects identified
in this order.  Defendant is ordered to file
its amended answer within 30 days.
Clerk
to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 5th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 