 Case Number:  22STCV27209    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THERESA CHANG, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BRINKS GLOBAL SERVICES USA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27209
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 14, 2023



 
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint
after the Court sustained Defendant Gloria Corrales’s demurrer with leave to amend.  On the same date, Plaintiffs also filed a motion
for leave to file a third amended complaint (“TAC”) to add causes of action against
Corrales.
Corrales’s evidentiary objections are
overruled.

The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiffs
identify the proposed amendments and provide a copy of the TAC.  (Shuman Decl. ¶ 1; Motion, Ex. A.)  The TAC adds causes of action for Fraudulent Concealment/Failure
to Disclose, Fraud and Deceit – Intentional Misrepresentation, and Negligent Misrepresentation
against Corrales.  (Shuman Decl. ¶¶ 1, 7.)  During discovery in the New York litigation, including
during Corrales’s deposition, Plaintiffs learned information that demonstrates the
falsity of Corrales’s statements.  (Shuman
Decl. ¶ 1.)  Plaintiffs first discovered the
information during a deposition on April 17, 2023, and the facts were not yet developed
by the time Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint on December 27, 2022.  (Shuman Decl. ¶ 1.)
Corrales’s
opposition arguments are primarily about the merits of the new claims, including
the sufficiency of pleading and evidentiary support.  (See Opposition at pp. 6-10.)  However, the Court does not ordinarily consider
the validity of the proposed amended pleading when determining whether to grant
leave to amend.  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended complaint
is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file
and serve the TAC within five days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 14th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 