 Case Number:  21STCV05526    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE

 

Plaintiff Robert Joiner’s Motion to Set Aside the Dismissal is DENIED
without prejudice.

 

Background 

 

On February 11, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Joiner (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Terrence
Lloyd Hutchinson (“Defendant”), alleging a cause of action for negligence,
stemming from a motor vehicle collision that occurred on February 11, 2019,
wherein Plaintiff sustained injuries due to Defendant’s conduct. 

On August 11,
2022, the Court dismissed the entire action without prejudice pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 581(b)(3), when Plaintiff did not appear for Non-Jury Trial.

On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to set aside the dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
473(b) and seeks reconsideration of the dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure § 1008.

Legal
Standard

 

Under Code of
Civil Procedure § 1008 (a), “When an application for an order has been made to
a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order.  The
party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”

 

Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b) provides for mandatory and
discretionary relief from dismissal.  “The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him through his
or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  Code of Civil
Procedure § 473(b).   Where such an
application for discretionary relief is made, the motion shall be accompanied
by a copy of the answer or
pleading proposed to be filed, or the application will not be granted.  (Id.)  The court
must grant relief from dismissal where the
application is accompanied by an attorney affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.  (Id.)  In either
case, the application must be made within a reasonable time, and in no case
exceeding six months after the judgment.  (Id.)  

 

Discussion

 

A.      Relief under
Code of Civil Procedure § 1008

 

As
stated by the court in Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494,
1499, California Code of Civil Procedure § 1008 “is the exclusive means for
modifying, amending or revoking an order. 
That limitation is expressly jurisdictional.” Because the statute has a
short, ten-day time limit, and the instant motion was filed over a year after
the Court entered its order for dismissal, Plaintiff’s motion for
reconsideration is untimely. 

 

Accordingly,
the motion is denied to the extent that it relies on Code of Civil Procedure §
1008. 

 

B.      Relief under
Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b)

 

Next,
Plaintiff requests to set aside the dismissal of his complaint pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 473(b) on the ground that his inability to attend trial
due to contracting COVID-19 and developing a serious illness constitutes
excusable neglect. (See Motion at pg. 3.) 

 

Relief
under section 473 is subject to a six-month time limit.  The party or the legal representative must
seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980
[“because more than six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence
relief under section 473 was unavailable”]; People v. The North River Ins.
Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for relief under § 473 must be
brought “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months”]).  “The six-month limit is mandatory; a court
has no authority to grant relief under section 473, subdivision (b), unless an
application is made within the six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340, citations omitted.)  


 

As
noted above, the instant motion was filed more than a year after the Court
dismissed Plaintiff’s complaint. Thus, Plaintiff’s request for relief pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure 473(b) is untimely. Because the time limit imposed
by this statute is jurisdictional, the Court lacks authority to grant
Plaintiff’s request even if his illness constituted excusable neglect. (See Arambula,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at pg. 340.) 

 

Accordingly,
because the motion is untimely, the motion is denied to the extent that it
relies on Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b).

 

C.     
Equitable
Grounds to Vacate Dismissal

 

Beyond six months,
the Court cannot grant relief under section 473 but it can, under certain
circumstances, vacate a dismissal under non-statutory, equitable grounds. 

 

“ “Apart from any
statute, courts have the inherent authority to vacate a default and default
judgment on equitable grounds such as extrinsic fraud or extrinsic mistake.
“Extrinsic fraud usually arises when a party is denied a fair adversary hearing
because he has been ‘deliberately kept in ignorance of the action or
proceeding, or in some other way fraudulently prevented from presenting his
claim or defense.’ ” In contrast, the term “extrinsic mistake” is “broadly
applied when circumstances extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a
party a hearing on the merits. [Citations.] ‘Extrinsic mistake is found when
[among other things] ... a mistake led a court to do what it never
intended....’ ” ”  (Bae v. T.D.
Service Co. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 89, 97-98, citations omitted; accord Rappleyea,
supra, at pg. 981 [“After six months from entry of default, a trial court
may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is
unavailable”].)

 

Further, the Bae
court held that “A party may seek equitable relief from a default and default
judgment by filing a motion in the pertinent action or initiating an
independent action. ‘[A] motion brought to do so may be made on such ground
even though the statutory period [for relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) ] has run.’ Because a motion for equitable relief
is ‘direct,’ rather than ‘collateral,’ extrinsic fraud or mistake may be
demonstrated by evidence not included in the judgment roll or record relating
to the judgment.”  (Bae, supra, at
pg. 98, citations omitted.)   

 

“[R]elief under
the doctrine of extrinsic mistake is subject to a “stringent three-part
formula.  “ ‘[T]o set aside a [default]
judgment based upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First,
the defaulted party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second [
], the party seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory
excuse for not presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving
party must demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once. . .discovered.’
” ”  (Bae, supra, at pg. 100,
citations omitted; see also Rappleyea, supra, at pg. 982 [equitable
relief should be granted in only exceptional circumstances].) 

 

Plaintiff does not
seek relief on equitable grounds.  Nor
does he present any evidence of the three required elements: (1) that he has a
meritorious case; (2) that he has a satisfactory excuse; and (3) that he acted
diligently upon discovery of the dismissal. 
He presents no evidence on the first element (a meritorious case).  On the second and third elements (excuse and
diligence), he presents some evidence that he was suffering from a severe
illness and he attempted to get help to set side the dismissal within three
months after entry of the default -- but more evidence would be required,
including evidence of the dates of his illness, the efforts he took to address
the dismissal upon discovery, and why he did not seek relief from the Court
sooner.

 

On this record,
the Court cannot grant Plaintiff equitable relief.  Having said that, the Court will deny the
motion without prejudice on the issue of equitable relief, meaning that
Plaintiff is able to file a new motion, with additional evidence (if it exists)
to attempt to show the three required elements for equitable relief: (1) that he
has a meritorious case; (2) that he has a satisfactory excuse for not appearing
at trial; and (3) that he acted diligently upon discovery of the dismissal.  . 

 

Conclusion

 

Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside the Dismissal is DENIED as to Plaintiff’s
requested relief under Code of Civil Procedure sections 473(b) and 1008.

 

The
denial is WITHOUT PREJUDICE to Plaintiff filing a new motion to set aside the
dismissal on equitable grounds.

 

Moving
party is ordered to give notice.

 

 