 Case Number:  23STCV03508    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
John Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03508




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Southern California Healthcare System dba Southern California Hospital
  at Culver City,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 27, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Southern California Healthcare System dba Southern California Hospital
at Culver City
Responding Party: Plaintiff John Doe
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE IS
GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND
AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANT TO FILE AND
SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff John Doe
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendant Southern California Healthcare System dba Southern California Hospital
at Culver City, asserting causes of action for (1) violation of the Bane Act;
(2) assault and battery; (3) false arrest and imprisonment; (4) negligence; (5)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (6) negligent infliction of
emotional distress.
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant’s security guards violently attacked
Plaintiff after he complained about Defendant’s treatment of Plaintiff’s
teenage daughter.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First Cause of Action for Violation
of the Bane Act
 
A claim for violation of the Bane Act
can be brought by an individual against a private person, where that person
interferes with the Plaintiff’s legal rights by threat, intimidation, or
coercion. (Civ. Code § 52.1(a), (b).) To allege a cause of action under Civil
Code section 52.1, the plaintiff must allege that “the defendant interfered
with or attempted to interfere with the plaintiff’s legal right by threatening
or committing violent acts.” (Doe v. State (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 832,
842.)
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of
action for violation of the Bane Act on the ground that Plaintiff has failed
allege sufficient facts. Plaintiff alleges Defendant interfered with his right
to be free from bodily harm under Civ. Code § 43 and to be free from restraint
by violently attacking him. This is sufficient to allege a cause of action for
violation of the Bane Act.
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Seventh Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)
 
Defendant asserts Plaintiff has failed
to allege facts showing extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiff alleges that security
attacked him and smashed his face on the pavement after he complained that
Defendant had improperly released his minor child, who had been brought in for
an overdose. A reasonable jury could find that this constitutes extreme and
outrageous behavior.
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Sixth Cause of Action for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
California courts have recognized that
NIED is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence such that the
traditional elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.
(See, e.g., Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 208, 213; Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric Medical Clinic,
Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.)
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant “owed a duty to exercise ordinary care for the emotional wellbeing of
hospital patrons—including both patients and their visitors—and for the
concerned parents of the children admitted into DEFENDANT SCHS’s care by
ambulance.” (FAC 113.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached this duty when
“After admitting PLAINTIFF’s 16- year-old, who arrived by ambulance in an
incapacitated and possibly suicidal state, DEFENDANTS released his daughter to
wander alone, lost and confused, for almost one hour. By failing to notify
PLAINTIFF or Jane Doe, DEFENDANTS concealed the fact of their daughter’s
release, and, ergo, the threat to their child’s safety and wellbeing—even
though one parent, Jane Doe, was in the waiting room at the time and had
demanded multiple times to be allowed to see and comfort her child.” (FAC 114.)
This is sufficient to state a cause of action for NIED.
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to allege
facts showing malice, oppression, or fraud and failed to allege corporate
ratification. As Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged IIED, Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts to support punitive damages. However, Plaintiff has not
alleged facts showing corporate ratification. The motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 