 Case Number:  22STCV18521    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Navid Pouladian,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV18521




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Bird Rides, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 27, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration
Moving Party: Defendant Bird Rides, Inc.
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL
ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
 
THE ACTION IS STAYED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving
papers. No opposition has been received. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants for injuries Plaintiff received while riding an
allegedly defective Bird Scooter.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration provisions in the Bird Rental Agreement, executed by
Plaintiff May 3, 2018 and August 3, 2019, when she
downloaded the Bird scooter rental application. The agreement provides, “[A]ll
claims arising out of or relating to use and rental of a Vehicle, this
Agreement, and the parties’ relationship with each other shall be finally
settled by binding arbitration… administered by JAMS, or alternatively a mutually
agreed upon arbitrator or arbitration service, under the applicable commercial
arbitration rules for JAMS or the mutually agreed upon arbitration service,
excluding any rules or procedures governing or permitting class actions.”
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish to the existence of an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to establish any defenses to enforcement. Plaintiff has failed to
oppose this motion to show any defense to enforcement.
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED. The
action is STAYED.


 