 Case Number:  24TRCV03211    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  B SUYAPA LIZZETH GALEAS AGUILERA, et al. vs AMERICAN HONDA
MOTOR CO., INC.
Case No. 24TRCV03211
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint 
Moving party: 
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding Party:  No Opposition
filed
This lawsuit arises from the unfortunate death of Cristhian
Balbino Galeas Aguilera and Luis Fernando Reyes Aguilar as a result of carbon
monoxide poisoning.  They allege that is
was from a Honda EU2200i portable gas generator.  On or about June 2, 2024, decedents Cristhian
Balbino Galeas Aguilera and Luis Fernando Reyes Aguilar were residing in a
mobile home located at 16020 John Dr., Channelview, Texas 77530.  Decedents were provided a Honda EU2200i
portable gas generator for use as there was no electrical service provided to
the mobile home.  It is alleged that Decedents
were unaware, however, that while using the gas generator, carbon monoxide gas could
quickly fill the home.  This caused
decedents to lose consciousness and both tragically died from carbon monoxide
gas poisoning.  (Complaint ¶ 1.)
The claims that are asserted in the First Amended Complaint
are identified as:
1. Strict Products Liability-Manufacturing and Design Defect;
2. Negligence; 3. Strict Products Liability-Failure to Warn; 4. Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability; 5. Fraudulent Concealment; and 6. Claim
for Punitive Damages.
Plaintiffs are identified in the caption of the First
Amended Complaint as “SUYAPA LIZZETH GALEAS AGUILERA, Individually and as
Successor-In-Interest to the ESTATE OF CRISTHIAN BALBINO GALEAS AGUILERA and ANTONIO
JUSTINO REYES, Individually and as Successor-In Interest to the ESTATE OF LUIS
FERNANDEO REYES AGUILAR.”  The Plaintiffs
are identified in paragraph 3 of the FAC.
“3.  At all times relevant to this action Decedents
Gristian Galeas and Luis Fernando Reyes Aguilar were residents of Channelview,
Harris County, Texas, and Plaintiffs Suyapa Lizzeth Galeas Aguilera and
Antonio Justino Reyes were residents of Choluteca, Honduras.”  (Bold added.)
On December 4, 2024 Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
filed its Demurrer.  As to each cause of
action American Honda contends that the Plaintiffs lack standing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 337.60.  American Honda also asserts that the Fifth
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment is defective as Plaintiffs have
failed to plead sufficient facts to state a fraud based cause of action against
it.
With regard to the claim for wrongful death, American Honda
notes that "[b]ecause it is a creature of statute, the cause of action for
wrongful death exists only so far and in favor of such person as the
legislative power may declare."  (Chavez
v. Carpenter (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1438.)
“A cause of action for the death of
a person caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another may be asserted by
any of the following persons or by the decedent's personal representative on
their behalf: [¶] (a) The decedent's surviving spouse, domestic partner,
children, and issue of deceased children, or, if there is no surviving issue of
the decedent, the persons, including the surviving spouse or domestic partner,
who would be entitled to the property of the decedent by intestate succession.  If the parents of the decedent would be
entitled to bring an action under this subdivision, and the parents are
deceased, then the legal guardians of the decedent, if any, may bring an action
under this subdivision as if they were the decedent's parents.” (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 377.60)
There is no factual allegation that either Plaintiff falls
within the statutory categories of relationships.  Hence, they have failed to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
Plaintiffs also allege that they have a cause of action as
the “successors-in-interest” to the decedents. 
However they have not alleged facts that, if proven, would establish
that claim.  As noted by Defendant, Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32 sets
forth the procedure that a plaintiff must follow to establish successor in
interest status.
Defendant is correct in noting that the only factual
allegations relating to the plaintiffs are that they are residents of Honduras.
 This is clearly insufficient to
establish that they are successors-in-interest to the decedents.
Finally, American Honda demurs to the Fifth Cause of action
for Fraudulent Concealment.  As a claim
based upon fraud, Plaintiffs’ must plead this cause of action with
particularity.  Since this claim involves
a corporation, the plaintiffs must "allege the names of the persons who
made the allegedly representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written."  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)  The
allegations are insufficient.
ORDER:
1.  The Demurrer is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend on all grounds stated in the Demurrer and
Memorandum of Points and Authorities.
2.  Defendant
American  Honda shall give notice.