

Hearing Date:             June
18, 2024
Case
Name:                Allison v. Pak
Case
No.:                    23STCV03614
Matter:                        Motion for Summary Judgment

Moving
Party:             Defendant Marian Pak,
D.O.
Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs Mary Cobb Allison and John
Bailey Owen

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion for summary judgment is denied. 

 
This is a medical
malpractice action. The Complaint alleges that, on November 22, 2021, Plaintiff
Mary Cobb (Plaintiff) was 40 weeks pregnant and presented to Defendant PIH Health
Good Samaritan Hospital for a scheduled induction; while at PIH Health Good
Samaritan Hospital, Plaintiff received negligent treatment and care from her
treating medical providers, including Defendants Dennis Idowu, M.D., Marian
Pak, D.O., Spectrum Women’s Health Care Medical Group, Inc., and PIH Health
Good Samaritan Hospital staff that resulted in her injuries. The Complaint
contains causes of action for (1.) professional negligence/medical malpractice
and (2.) loss of consortium.  
 
Defendant Marian
Pak, D.O. (Defendant Pak) now moves for summary judgment. Plaintiffs Mary Cobb
Allison (Allison) and John Bailey Owen (Owen) filed an opposition. 
 
The motion for
summary judgment is denied.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move
for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (a).)  “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp.¿(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
The moving party
has the initial burden of production to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he does so, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to make¿a prima facie¿showing of the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., §
437c,¿subd. (p)(2).) A Defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its
initial burden by proving that for each cause of action alleged, plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c(p)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
Medical Negligence Cause of
Action:
 
Defendant Pak moves
for summary judgment on the grounds that (1.) the care and treatment provided
to Plaintiff by Defendant Pak was, to a reasonable degree of medical
probability, at all times appropriate and within the applicable standard of
care in the community; and (2.) no negligent act or omission by Defendant Pak
was the cause of, or a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ alleged
injuries.
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Johnson
v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) To prove a medical
malpractice claim, the plaintiff must first establish the applicable standard
of care and then demonstrate that the standard of care was breached. (Powell
v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122.) 
 
Expert opinion
testimony is required to prove or disprove that the defendant in a professional
malpractice action performed in accordance with the prevailing standard of
care. “The standard of skill, knowledge and care prevailing in a medical community
is ordinarily a matter within the expert’s knowledge.” (Jacoves v.
United Merchandising Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 88, 105.) It is
well-established that “[i]n professional malpractice cases, expert opinion
testimony is required to prove or disprove that the defendant performed in
accordance with the prevailing standard of care [citation], except in cases
where the negligence is obvious to laymen.” (Kelley v. Trunk (1998)
66 Cal.App.4th 519, 523; Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410; see also Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d
406, 412 [nurse's conduct must be measured by the standard of care required of
other nurses in the same or similar locality and under similar circumstances].)
 
In support of the
motion for summary judgment, Defendant submits the expert declaration of Scott
Serden, M.D. Dr. Serden opines that the care and treatment of Plaintiff Allison
by Defendant Pak, complied with the applicable standard of care at all times. (Serden
Decl., ¶¶ 33, 48.) Specifically, Dr. Serden opines that – given the specifically
identified facts in the underlying medical records – Defendant Pak’s actions
were appropriate and reasonable. 
 
Further, in
anticipation of the opposition arguments, Dr. Serden notes that a consultation
by specialist, including infectious disease and/or nephrology specialist, would
not have changed the outcome in this case. (Serden Decl., ¶¶ 34-45.) Dr. Serden
also states that the standard of care did not require Defendant Pak to order
new or additional antibiotics for Plaintiff Allison; that is, Defendant’s use
and reliance on Zosyn was appropriate. (Serden Decl., ¶ 46.)
 
Contrary to the arguments
in opposition challenging this expert evidence, Dr. Serden’s declaration is not
deficient under Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519 and adequately
provides a reasoned explanation on the key issues in this case. Thus, Defendant
Pak’s evidence shifts her initial burden on this medical negligence claim by
demonstrating that Plaintiff cannot prove the essential elements of a breach of
duty of care or causation.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the evidence demonstrates Defendant Pak’s
failure to meet the standard of care and demonstrates causation.  
 
            In
support, Plaintiffs submit their own expert, Howard Mandel, M.D., F.A.C.O.G. Like
Dr. Serden, Dr. Mandel is board certified in Obstetrics and Gynecology and is
qualified to testify on the standard of care for an obstetrician such as Defendant
Pak. (Mandel Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) 
 
Dr. Mandel opines
that Defendant Pak delayed Plaintiff Allison’s diagnosis of septic shock and
failed to aggressively manage her clinical situation. (Mandel Decl., ¶ 14.)
After discovering that Plaintiff had a decreased urine output and increase
white blood cell count, Defendant Pak should have known that Plaintiff was in
septic shock and that her antibiotic regime was insufficient. (Mandel Decl., ¶
14.) “The standard of care at this time required [Defendant] Pak . . .  to consult with an infectious disease
specialist, ICU physician, emergency department physician, or an internist with
experience treating septic shock. [Defendant] Pak fail[ed] to do this allowing [Plaintiff]
Allison’s septic shock to worsen.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 14.) Dr. Mandel continues
by opining that “[Defendant] Pak also breached the standard of care by leaving
the hospital shortly after this with [Plaintiff] Allison in shock that was not
being treated appropriately.” (Mandel Decl., ¶ 14.) 
 
            Based
on these breaches of the standard of care, Dr. Mandel opines that Defendant
Pak’s actions were a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff Allison’s
development of septic shock and her subsequent symptoms including loss of
kidney function actions. (Mandel Decl., ¶ 17.) 
 
            In
reply, Defendant Pak attempts to undermine Plaintiff’s expert declaration by
arguing that the “Zosyn is the correct antibiotic for Ms. Allison to have been
on, but even if it wasn't, an earlier consult would not have changed anything
because the specialists all kept her on Zosyn.” (Reply 2:12-15.) Defendant further
argues that Plaintiff's expert “is an OBGYN and not an Infection Disease
physician, yet he opines beyond the scope of his expertise as to the proper
antibiotic to give without at all establishing what the foundational basis for
his conclusion.” (Reply 2:18-20.)  
 
These arguments
are unpersuasive. It is within Plaintiff’s expert’s expertise to opine on the
proper course of conduct for an obstetrician to follow under the circumstances.
Further, the argument regarding “Zosyn [being] the correct antibiotic” only
highlights the material facts in dispute, specifically regarding whether the
usage of Zosyn was sufficient in Plaintiff’s treatment and care. 
 
Therefore, the
opposition sufficiently raises a triable issue of material fact in dispute. Based
on the triable issue of material facts in dispute as to the medical negligence
claim, the challenge to the loss of consortium claim also fails.  
 
Conclusion
 
The motion for
summary judgment is denied. 
 