

 
            This is a
dispute over real property. Plaintiff Samuel Gelff (Plaintiff or Samuel),
administrator
of the estate of Stephen Jefferey Gelff (Gelff), alleges that Anne Frances
Weiss (Weiss) and Gelff acquired properties together in the early 1990s and
formalized their real estate business partnership with a Joint Venture
Agreement (Agreement) on December 17, 1997. Originally, Weiss and Gelff jointly
held four properties together, which were all held in Weiss’s name. Thereafter,
in conjunction with the Agreement, the Complaint alleges that on December 17,
1997, Weiss executed and delivered four quitclaim deeds, transferring 50% of
each of the properties to Gelff, including the subject property at issue in this
case – 6040 Carlton Way, Los Angeles, CA 90028 (Property). None of these
quitclaims, including as to the subject property, were recorded.  The FAC pleads that on January 21, 1998, Weiss
transferred her entire interest in the Property to Defendant Mission
Investments Inc. (Defendant). (The individual quitclaim deed actually appears
to have been dated January 28, 1998, and recorded the same day.)  The FAC avers that despite owning 50% of the
Property, Defendant Mission appears as the sole owner of the Subject Property
according to the records of the Los County Recorder's office. 
 
            The
Complaint alleged that this action became necessary because, after Weiss died
in 2022, the administrator of Weiss’s estate may try to include the 100% of the
Property as an asset of Weiss’s estate. 
 
The Complaint contained causes of
action for (1.) quiet title, (2.) constructive trust, (3.) resulting trust. 
 
            Defendant
Mission Investments Inc. demurred to the first through third causes of action
in the Complaint. The Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
            The First
Amended Complaint contains only a single cause of action for quiet title.  
 
            Defendant
Mission Investments Inc. demurs to the FAC on the grounds the matter is barred
by the statute of limitations. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.
 
            After
hearing on this matter, the Court continued the hearing to allow for
supplemental briefing. 
 
            The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Supplemental
Briefing
 
The FAC
alleges that pursuant to the 1997 Joint Venture Agreement between Weiss and Gelff,
Weiss was to transfer 50% ownership in the Carlton Way Property. (FAC, Ex. A.)
Anne did so by quitclaim deed on December 17, 1997, transferring “A 50% (Fifty
Percent) interest in the ownership of” “6040 Carlton Way, Hollywood, CA 90028”
(Property). (FAC, Ex. B.) Then on January 28, 1998, Weiss transferred her interest
in the Property to Defendant Missions Investments, Inc. 
 
“A quitclaim
deed, however, ‘transfers only whatever interest the grantors possess at the
time of the conveyance.’” (In re Marriage of Gioia (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 272, 280.) It provides no “implied warranty of title.” (Id.)

 
Defendant Mission
argues that “It is clear that Gelff’s possession was disturbed in 1998 (just a
month after signing the Joint Venture Agreement) when he no longer had title to
the Subject Property.” (Supp. Briefing 1:12-14.) However, based on the chain of
title in the pleadings and above case authority, on January 28, 1998, Gelff
still had a 50% ownership interest in 6040 Carlton Way because that is all Anne
had to transfer to Mission on January 28, 1998.
 
Nonetheless,
the quitclaim deed to Mission fails to identify any percentage of interest transferred
and thus purports to transfer 100% ownership interest in the Property. Further,
the FAC alleges that Mission appears as the sole owner of the Property
according to the records of the County Recorder's office. (FAC ¶ 27.) 
 
Limitations periods for quiet title
actions
 
“[T]here is
no statute of limitations that generally governs all actions to quiet title.
[Citation.] Instead, courts look to the underlying theory of relief to
determine the applicable period of limitations. [Citation.] An inquiry into the
underlying theory requires the court to identify the nature (i.e., the
‘gravamen’) of the cause of action. [Citation.] [Courts] look to the nature of
the right asserted, not the form of action or relief sought. [Citation.]” (Huang
v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 431, 437.)
 
“ ‘[T]he
most likely time limits for a quiet title action are the five-year limitations
period for adverse possession, the four-year limitations period for
cancellation of an instrument, or the three-year limitations period for claims
based upon fraud and mistake.’ ” (Walters v. Boosinger (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 421, 428.) 
 
A cause of
action for quiet title based upon fraud or mistake is three years. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) The limitations period for any actions not covered by
any other statute of limitation is four years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 343; Leeper
v. Beltrami (1959) 53 Cal.2d 195, 212 [quiet title based on
rescission]; Walters v. Boosinger, supra, at pp. 432-433
[quiet title based on voidness against public policy]; Moss v. Moss (1942)
20 Cal.2d 640, 644-645 [quiet title based on undue influence].) The limitations
period for “action[s] for the recovery of real property” or “action[s] ...
arising out of the title to real property” is five years from the date the
plaintiff or his “grantor” is no longer in possession of the property. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 318, 319.)
 
Analysis
 
Under any of
the statute of limitations periods, the claim appears barred based on the
purported 100% transfer from Anne to Mission in 1998, and the recordation of
that transfer.  No explanation is offered
for why Gelff did not record the purported quitclaims to him from Weiss of 50%
of the property. 
 
Defendant Mission
argues that delayed discovery does not apply to quiet title claims and relies
on Salazar v. Thomas (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 467. In that case, the court
explained that “general principles” for when accrual begins “do not necessarily
apply” to a cause of action for quiet title because this claim has “special
rules for when the limitations period begins to run.” (Id. at 477.) This
sentence also includes a footnote that the last element for accrual purposes
includes several exceptions, including the discovery rule. This footnote reference
in Salazar was neither material to the court’s holding in that case nor
does it state, as Mission insists, that delayed discovery does not apply to
quiet title claims. 
 
Nonetheless,
this Court has found no case authority applying delayed discovery except in
cases where the gravamen of the claim falls within the fraud or mistake set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 338, subdivision (d). 
 
Section 338,
subdivision (d)’s scope is expansive. “It is black letter law that section
338(d) applies regardless of the form of the action a plaintiff chooses or
legal theory she [or he] advances. Section 338(d)’s ‘language is comprehensive
and the statute, with its favorable accrual rule, is accordingly applied to any
form of action, for any kind of relief. In other words, if fraud or mistake is
the basis of the legal injury (the “ground” of the action), the section applies
regardless of whether the complaint seeks legal or equitable relief or pleads a
cause of action in tort or contract.’ [Citation.]” (Vera v. REL-BC, LLC
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 57, 66.)
 
Here, however,
where there are no allegations of fraud or mistake, the claim for quiet title
is not subject to Section 338. Plaintiff’s Supplemental Opposition argues that
“Plaintiff
relied on Anne’s [Weiss’s] statements and omissions
regarding matters pertinent to his interests” but alleges no specific statements
or concealments that would satisfy the fraud (or fiduciary relationship)
based-claims with respect to Plaintiff or Gelff. Plaintiff Samuel pleads
no facts that Anne breached any duty to his predecessor in interest Gelff. Similarly,
Plaintiff acknowledges that he pleads no explicit fraud by Weiss to him, arguing
wanly that “it is implied that Anne intentionally concealed the existence of
the quitclaim deed from Plaintiff, as evidenced by Plaintiff’s lack of
knowledge about it prior to Anne’s death.” 
The FAC merely avers that Plaintiff “genuinely believed that Anne would
have informed him of any valuable assets….” 
This is far too vague to invoke the delayed discovery rule based on
fraud or mistake.  Neither Samuel’s lack
of knowledge nor his belief justify a special tolling rule fashioned to protect
parties who have been defrauded.
  
Moreover, as
the FAC alleges, Mission appears as the sole owner of the Subject Property
according to the records of the County Recorder's office. (FAC ¶ 27.)
Therefore, Plaintiff’s claim based delayed discovery are defeated by presumed
or constructive notice, which would be provided by the public records
evidencing Mission’s ownership of the Property. (Bank of New York Mellon v.
Citybank, N.A. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 935, 956-957 [Code Civ. Proc., § 338 delayed
discovery rule defeated by inquiry notice].)
 
Further,
there are no delayed discovery allegations as to Gelff. Rather, Plaintiff only
provides some explanation for his failure to discover this claim sooner, but
there is no accounting for Gelff’s action after the 1998 transfer – suggesting
that the statute of limitations expired while the claim was held by him.  Plaintiff cannot resurrect Gelff’s already
expired claim. 
 
Further,
circumstantial evidence that Gelff had at least constructive notice of the
transfers to Mission long before he died is that the other three properties
that Weiss purportedly simultaneously conveyed a 50 percent interest to Gelff,
were all sold by Mission to other parties during Gelff’s lifetime.  (Defendant’s exhibits B, D, and F.)  Ordinary prudence would have alerted Gelff that
his purported claim to half of the properties was, at a minimum, in doubt.  
 
Thus, unless
Plaintiff demonstrates that a “special rule” applicable to quiet title actions
applies (which he has not), his quiet title claim is time-barred. Rather, Plaintiff’s
only argument appears to be that the quiet title claim did not accrue until August 3, 2023, when Anne’s
estate filed a Notice of Proposed Action to sell the Carlton Property – that
is, that he did not discover his claim until this date. 


            Defendant
also contends that Code of Civil Procedure section 366.1 bars the quiet title
claim. Section 366.1 provides that a survival action may be commenced before
the expiration of the later of two terms: (a) “[s]ix months after the person's
death” or (b) “[t]he limitations period that would have been applicable if the
person had not died.”  This quiet title
action is not exactly a survival action, but if it is, it fails under section
366.1 because – as noted above – the statute of limitations has run on the
quiet title claim as to Gelff. (Estate of Herndon v. Netflix, Inc. (9th
Cir., Feb. 27, 2024, No. 22-15260) 2024 WL 808797, at *2.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Gelff had notice of a potentially
adverse claim to the property upon recordation of 
Weiss’s deed to Defendant in 1998.  The limitations period for any claim by
Gelff, and thereby Samuel, has long since expired. The demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint sustained without leave to amend. 