 Case Number:  24VECV01864    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ABDULAHAD ASIYOU, AN INDIVIDUAL,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
HELEN GALPER, AN INDIVIDUAL; MARK GALPER, AN INDIVIDUAL; AND DOES 1 TO
  10, INCLUSIVE,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 24VECV01864
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This case
arises out of a motor vehicle accident between Plaintiff Abdulahad Asiyou (“Plaintiff”)
and Defendants Helen Galper and Mark Galper (“Defendants”) that occurred on April
23, 2022. (See Complaint, pg. 4.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Helen Galper negligently operated the vehicle registered
to Defendant Mark Galper. (See id.) Additionally, Plaintiff claims Mark
Galper negligently entrusted the vehicle to Helen Galper, who is alleged to
have driven it negligently. (See id.) Plaintiff alleges the Defendants negligence
is a substantial factor in their damages suffered. (See id.) 
Defendants now seek a
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings (“Motion”) regarding Plaintiff’s third
cause of action for negligent entrustment. 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On April 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed its Complaint, alleging (1) General Negligence; (2) Motor
Vehicle; and (3) Negligent Entrustment. 
On June 20, 2024,
Defendants filed their Answer.
On August 5,
2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
(“Motion”).
Defendant did not file
an opposition. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings
performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.” (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
1057, 1064.) In considering a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts
consider whether the factual allegations, assumed true, are sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (See Fire Ins. Exchange v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452-53.) Thus, it may be granted
if, from the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed,
it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 438(d)[1];
Saltarelli & Steponovich v. Douglas (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.). 
    A defendant or plaintiff’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has expired and an answer
has been filed. (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(f).)
IV.         
MEET AND CONFER
“Before
filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of
determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims to be
raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)
(emphasis added).)          
Defense counsel declared he complied
with his requirements under Code of Civil Procedure § 439(a) because he sent a meet and confer email to Plaintiff’s counsel
on July 2, 2024. (See Declaration of Owen P. Sandstrom filed August 5,
2024, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel failed to respond to this email. (See Motion,
pg. 3; 10-11.) The Court disagrees because Defendants’ counsel did not even propose
a time to confer with Plaintiff. Code of Civil Procedure § 439(a) explicitly requires the moving party
to meet and confer in person or by telephone; Defense counsel has not done so
here and has thus not fulfilled his meet and confer requirements. Nevertheless,
that failure is mitigated by Plaintiff’s counsel’s failure to respond in any
way whatsoever to Defendants’ counsel’s email. Therefore, the Court will nonetheless rule on Defendant’s
Motion in the interest of judicial efficiency. 
V.            
ANALYSIS
A.            
Plaintiff Fails to Adequately Plead
Negligent Entrustment. 
The
elements of negligent entrustment are (1) the driver negligently operated a
vehicle, (2) the defendant owned that vehicle, (3) the defendant knew, or
should have known, the driver was unfit or incompetent for driving, (4) defendant
permitted that driver to use the vehicle, and (5) a substantial factor in
causing harm to the plaintiff was that unfitness or incompetence. (See Jeld-Wen,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 863-64 (citing CACI No.
724).)
Moving
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to
constitute a negligent entrustment cause of action. (See Motion,
pg. 3; 12-13.) The Court agrees.
Although Plaintiff
asserts (1) Helen Galper drove the vehicle negligently and (2) Mark Galper
owned vehicle, Plaintiff fails to assert material facts that (3) Mark Galper, knew,
or should have known the driver, Helen Galper, was unfit or
incompetent for driving, (4) Mark Galper permitted the driver, Helen Galper, to use the vehicle,
and (5) Defendants’ negligent and harmful conduct is a substantial factor in
causing the accident and damages suffered by Plaintiff.  
Plaintiff’s
complaint merely alleges Defendant Mark Galper breached a duty of care by
entrusting his vehicle to the negligent driver, Defendant Helen Galper, and the
negligence of Defendants in doing so caused Plaintiff to suffer damages. (See
id.) Therefore, Plaintiff’s
third cause of action is defectively conclusory because it states no facts to
support Defendant Mark Galper was negligent in entrusting the vehicle to
Defendant Helen Galper. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for
negligent entrustment.
VI.         
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendants’
Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligent entrustment. 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:      September 13, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


