  Case Number:  23VECV05068    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ANTHONY SMITH, an
  individual, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC, a Delaware
  Limited Liability Company, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV05068
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR ORDER GRANTING RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF
  DISCOVERY OBJECTIONS FOR FAILURE TO TIMELY RESPOND TO PLAINTIFF’S FORM INTERROGATORIES



 


 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a
Song-Beverly Act case. Plaintiff Anthony Smith (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”) violated the Song Beverly Act’s Breach of
Express and Implied Warranty. 
Defendant seeks relief
from waiver of discovery objections due to its failure to timely serve responses
to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (“FROGS”) pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.290.[1]
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On November
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging: (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act- Breach of Express Warranty, and (2) Violation of Song Beverly
Act- Breach of Implied Warranty. 
On December
11, 2023, Defendant filed its answer. 
On September
10, 2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses
to his Requests for Production (“RFPs”) and his Motion for an Order Deeming the
Truth of the Matters Admitted in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (“RFAs”). The
Court denied Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person
Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”).
On October
18, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for Order Granting Relief from
Waiver of Discovery Objections for Failure to Timely Respond to Plaintiff’s
FROGS (“Motion”). 
Plaintiff did
not file an opposition despite representing to Defendant’s counsel during the
pre-filing meet and confer process that he would. 
///
///
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.            
Relief from Waiver of Discovery
Objections
A party who
fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection waives any
objection to the demand, including based on privilege or work product, unless
the court finds that the party has subsequently served a response that is in
substantial compliance and the party’s failure was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300
(a)(1)-(2).) The trial court has broad discretion to grant relief from waiver
of objections on a noticed motion upon determining that: (a) the moving party
subsequently served discovery responses which are substantially code compliant;
and (b) the moving party’s failure to timely serve responses “was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a),
2031.300(a), and 2033.280(a).)
A court may
not find that only some portions of a document containing responses are code-compliant
but must instead determine whether the document as whole substantially
complies. (See St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 779-780.)¿¿
The statutory
language “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” in the discovery statute
should be interpreted using the same general principles developed in
application of the identical language in section 473(b). (See Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263, 275.) Although the
party moving for relief under section 473 has the burden to show the mistake,
inadvertence, or neglect was excusable, any doubts as to that showing must be
resolved in favor of the moving party. (See New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)¿¿¿ 
IV.         
ANALYSIS
A.            
The Court Grants Defendant’s Motion.
Defendant
requests relief from waiver of discovery objections due to Defendant’s failure
to timely serve responses to Plaintiff’s first set of FROGS. (See Motion,
pg. 2.) Defendant requests this relief based on mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. (See id.) Defendant’s counsel, Brian Hom (“Hom”),
declares the firm he works for, Clark Hill LLP (“Clark Hill”), represents
Defendant on hundreds of Song-Beverly Act cases. (See Declaration of
Brian Hom filed October 21, 2024 (“Hom Decl.”), ¶¶ 2-3.) Hom declares “[d]ue to
the high volume of Lemon Law matters within the firm, in order to manage the
cases efficiently, the matters are not assigned to individual lawyers for all
purposes. Rather, the lawyers working on the matters are assigned discreet
aspects of the litigation.” (Hom Decl., ¶ 4.) Hom further declares Clark Hill
attorney Vanessa Dao was previously tasked with handling all discovery matters
in the instant case, but that she resigned in June of 2024 after failing to
meet the discovery deadlines in this and other cases. (See id. at ¶¶
6-10.) Hom declares he was not able to get in touch with Dao after her
resignation until August of 2024, when Dao submitted a declaration explaining
her failure to timely serve responses was due to an ongoing medical condition.
(See id. at ¶¶ 11-12.)[2] Finally,
Hom declares Defendant served code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s FROGS on July
3, 2024. (See id. at ¶ 14, Ex. E.) 
Plaintiff did
not oppose despite representing to Defendant’s counsel during the pre-filing
meet and confer process that he would. 
Defendant’s
Motion is granted because the Court finds Defendant’s failure to provide timely
responses was due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. While the
Court does not find Defendant’s July 3, 2024, responses to Plaintiff’s FROGS
code-complaint, the Court finds them substantially complaint such that
relief is appropriate here. “Substantial compliance” doesn’t mean free from
issues. A response may be in substantial compliance and still the proper
subject of a (later) motion to compel. A response is in substantial compliance
if it is in the form expected for an answer to the given request and conveys
some information. 
Accordingly, the
Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion.  
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion for Order Granting Relief from
Waiver of Discovery Objections for Failure to Timely Respond to Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatories.
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
DATED:      November 12, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


