 Case Number:  22STCV35673    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JUAN PABLO ALCANTAR, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALEXANDER ESCALANTE, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV35673  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENSE MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 19, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Juan Pablo Alcantar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Alexander Escalante (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle v. bicycle incident. At this time, Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for a mental examination with neuropsychologist John T. Dunn, Ph.D. (“Dr. Dunn”) at 23734 Valencia Blvd., Suite 306, Valencia.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendant filed a reply.  Moving Argument Defendant avers Plaintiff claims on-going “problems with his memory, doesn’t act like himself, occasional headaches, quicker to get angry, irritable, frustrated, difficulty focusing.” Further, Plaintiff testified that he has memory issues, gets frustrated more easily, has nightmares as well as random waves of sadness, and loses focus. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has been seen by neurologist Mahyar Okhovat, M.D., whose records state Plaintiff may need neuropsychological testing for further cognitive testing and psychological testing and treatment for behavioral post concussive symptoms. Defendant contends the parties met and conferred over Plaintiff’s physical examination with a neurologist and mental examination. Although Plaintiff is willing to stipulate he would not claim psychological injuries such as depression, Defendant avers a mental examination is still necessary because Plaintiff is not withdrawing his memory loss, forgetfulness, and cognitive injury claims.   Opposing Argument Plaintiff argues that the list of tests is defective because they are tests that a doctor “might” perform, and that the proposed examination for approximately seven hours is invasive and unduly burdensome. Plaintiff further contends that should the Court grant Defendant’s motion, that Plaintiff’s mother/guardian ad litem or counsel must be allowed to accompany Plaintiff. Plaintiff claims physical traumatic brain injury, but asserts that he is not claiming any psychological damages claim. Plaintiff contends memory problems, forgetfulness, nightmares, random waves of sadness, quicker to anger, irritability, and lack of focus are garden variety emotional distress claims.  Lastly, Plaintiff requests advance protections to a defense mental examination in allowing Plaintiff to be accompanied, breaks every 45 minutes, limitation of the exam to four hours, limiting questions presented to Plaintiff, allowing Plaintiff to audio record, and the production of the tests and testing materials to Plaintiff’s counsel.  Reply Argument Defendant argues that pursuant to Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, it is proper for a defendant to list all potential tests that may be performed, and that it does not stand for the proposition that only tests that will actually be performed be listed. Further, Defendant contends Plaintiff concedes that he has cognitive complaints of memory issues and emotional complaints, which is beyond a garden variety emotional distress claim.  In terms of Plaintiff’s proposed limitations and conditions, Defendant avers that there is no support and that it is unnecessary. Further, Defendant has submitted Dr. Dunn’s declaration explaining the need for seven hours (with breaks and lunch) for an effective examination.  II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENSE MENTAL EXAMINATION Legal Standard Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.  Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)    Discussion Here, the Court finds good cause for Plaintiff’s mental examination. Cognitive issues of memory and personality changes involving anger issues are not “garden variety” emotional distress claims. The Court agrees with Defendant that the proposed limitations on the examination are not necessary, nor reasonably justified. Dr. Dunn’s declaration sufficiently provides details justifying the length of the examination, and the Court finds no reason to arbitrarily limit the examination to four hours as proposed by Plaintiff. Additionally, there is no dispute that Plaintiff is entitled to and may audio record the examination. (Mot. Dunn Decl. ¶ 8.)  The proposed examination properly lists the scope and manner of the examination. The listing of the potential tests is permitted pursuant to Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, and there is no requirement that the listed tests be comprised of only the “actual” tests to be performed.  Lastly, there is no good cause to allow Plaintiff a third-party observer to be present during the examination just because Plaintiff is still a minor at 17 years old. In Edwards v. Superior Court (1976) 16 Cal.3d 905, a plaintiff was not allowed to have counsel present during a psychiatric examination to protect her from improper questioning.  The Edwards court determined that this concern did not overcome the defendant’s right to an effective psychiatric examination and for that examination to be valid and free from external influences. The California Supreme Court reaffirmed in Edwards that the personal interview remains “[t]he basic tool of psychiatric study” and “requires rapport between the interviewer and the subject” such that counsel’s presence would negate the value of the examination. (Id. at 910.) Here, Plaintiff does not submit any evidence demonstrating why counsel or Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem are necessary to protect Plaintiff’s rights. The examination will be recorded and allowing either Plaintiff’s guardian ad litem or counsel to attend the examination would, like the presence of counsel in Edwards, interfere with the building of rapport between Plaintiff and Dr. Dunn.  In terms of production of the raw data to Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court is guided by Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249 and Randy’s Trucking, Inc. et al. v. Superior Court, (2023) 91 Cal. App. 5th 818. Randy’s Trucking expressly declined creating a bright-line rule limiting transmission of neuropsychological and psychological testing materials and raw test data, as well as audio recordings of examinations, to licensed neuropsychologists or psychologists. Any concerns of the sufficiency of a protective order to protect test security and that no neuropsychological or psychological expert will comply with such an order “are better expressed to the Legislature, which is empowered to create evidentiary rules limiting the transmission of discovery materials.” (Id. at 848.) Thus, the Court finds it appropriate to order the production of the tests and testing material to Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to a protective order.  III. CONCLUSION Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination with Dr. Dunn is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a mental examination with Dr. Dunn at 23734 Valencia Blvd., Suite 306, Valencia. Counsels must meet and confer to determine a mutually agreeable date and time for the examination; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendant may unilaterally set the date and time for the examination with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service). Additionally, the order granting the motion to compel mental examination is limited as follows: The Court orders the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective order confining the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data and audio-recording of the interview and examination so that it may be properly used by Plaintiff’s counsel to consult with Plaintiff’s own experts and to conduct cross-examination of Defendant’s experts. The protective order should include instructions to destroy the material at the conclusion of the matter.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 18th day of March 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    