  Case Number:  19STCV28649    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



FIDELITY NATIONAL TITLE INSURANCE
  COMPANY, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
WASHINGTON SQUARE MANAGEMENT, LLC,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  19STCV28649
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 27, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7
(1)     
  Motion to Quash and (2) Motions in Limine



 
 
Order on Motion to Quash:
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Fidelity National Title
Insurance Company (“Fidelity”) moves to quash the subpoena served by Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Washington Square Management, LLC (“Washington Square”)
on Plaintiff’s former counsel in this action, Zi C. Lin (“Lin”). Both Plaintiff
and Washington Square seek sanctions relating to this motion.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to quash. 
 
The Court DENIES sanctions.
 
Background
 
This is an insurance case.
 
On September 28, 2017, Fidelity underwrote a title insurance
policy (the “Policy”) held by Washington Square for the real property located
at 1211-1225 E Washington Boulevard, Los Angeles, California (the “Property”). 
 
The policy also insured a parking easement described as
“Parcel 5” in the description attached to the title policy. The parking
easement was located on property owned by Soon Han Pak, Chung Hyuk Pak, and
1232 East Washington Blvd Property, LLC (collectively “Paks”). This easement
was conveyed in 2008. The escrow company for the conveyance was Chicago Title
Company (“Chicago Title”), an affiliate of Plaintiff.
 
A dispute arose between Washington Square and the Paks over
the parking easement. Washington Square tendered a claim to Fidelity as a
result. 
 
In February 2018, Fidelity informed Washington Square that Fidelity
would be retaining counsel to represent Washington Square. 
 
In April 2018, Fidelity retained counsel at Fidelity
National Law Group (“FN Law Group”), an affiliate of Fidelity, to represent Washington
Square in connection with the dispute with the Paks. On behalf of Washington
Square, the retained counsel filed an action for declaratory relief and quiet
title relating to the parking easement (the “Pak Action”).
 
Washington Square contends in this action that Fidelity
failed to obtain a litigation guaranty for the quiet title claim and, as a
result, failed to name as defendants all persons who had a record title
interest in the parking lot that was the subject of the easement. (Second
Amended Cross-Complaint “SACC” ¶ 55.) One such party that Washington Square
identifies is Wilshire State Bank, which Fidelity alleges held a deed of trust
encumbering the parking lot.
 
Washington Square alleges that Fidelity failed to disclose
conflicts of interest that arose over the course of the Pak Action. Washington
Square alleges that Wilshire State Bank was also an insured of Fidelity.
 
In the Pak Action, FN Law Group issued subpoenas to Chicago
Title. Washington Square alleges that Washington Square instructed FN Law Group
to withdraw the subpoenas in order to protect Chicago Title, Fidelity’s
affiliate. (SACC ¶ 58.)
 
Fidelity contends that, throughout the Pak Action, Washington
Square demanded that the retained counsel bring claims in the Pak Action that
were outside the scope of the Policy and outside the scope of the engagement
agreement for retained counsel.
 
On August 8, 2019, the court in the Pak Action granted the
retained counsel’s motion to withdraw as counsel due to a conflict of interest.
 
Fidelity subsequently terminated Washington Square’s
coverage under the Policy due to what Fidelity characterizes as Washington
Square’s failure to cooperate.
 
Fidelity filed this action on August 13, 2019.
 
On March 18, 2019, Washington Square filed a
Cross-Complaint.
 
The operative cross-complaint is now the Second Amended
Cross-Complaint (“SACC”), which raises claims for (1) breach of contract; (2)
negligence; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5)
fraud and deceit; (6) breach of insurance contract; (7) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (8) violation of Penal Code,
section 496.
 
On October 28, 2024, Washington Square served Lin with a
subpoena to appear at trial.
 
On November 8, 2024, Fidelity filed this motion to quash the
subpoena on Lin. Washington Square filed an opposition and Fidelity filed a
reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court has reviewed Fidelity’s evidentiary objections.
 
The Court overrules Fidelity’s evidentiary objections
without prejudice to Fidelity’s ability to raise them at trial or in its
motions in limine.
 
Discussion
 
            Lin
was Fidelity’s former counsel in this action. (Squire Decl. ¶ 7.) Lin was an
attorney at Garret & Tully, Fidelity’s current law firm, from 2007 to 2023
and was a partner there from 2015 to 2023. (Squire Decl. ¶ 7.) Lin represented Fidelity
in this matter while he was employed at Garret & Tully, and his role was
solely legal. (Squire Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
            In
addition to having represented Fidelity, Lin represented Chicago Title in a
separate action. In the course of his representation of Chicago Title, Lin
unsuccessfully objected to a subpoena and opposed a motion to compel served on Chicago
Title. Washington Square contends that Lin opposed the motion to compel in
order to conceal material information known to Fidelity, but not known to Washington
Square regarding Fidelity’s conflict of interest between Washington Square and
Wilshire State Bank. Washington Square contends that the discovery of that
conflict of interest would have resulted in Fidelity realizing that the Paks
Action was defective for failure to name Wilshire State Bank as a Washington
Square.
 
            “
‘[T]he practice of taking the deposition of opposing counsel should be severely
restricted, and permitted only upon showing of extremely good cause ....’ (Fireman's
Fund Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 786, 790.) That
decision, and others, did permit such deposition in an insurance bad faith
case, where ‘an attorney for a party is the sole, or principal, negotiator and
in which bad faith is alleged and punitive damages are sought based upon that
allegation of bad faith.’ (Id. at p. 790)” (Spectra-Physics, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 1487, 1493.) “However, even where
depositions are permitted in insurance bad faith litigation, the
attorney-client privilege nevertheless applies and limits the questions which
may be asked of counsel, unless the insurer directly relies on advice of
counsel as a defense to the bad faith charge.” (Id. at p. 1494.)
 
            Washington
Square contends that Lin’s testimony is necessary to establish:
 
            (1)
Fidelity’s awareness of the financial importance of Washington Square and
Wilshire State Bank’s potential claims against Fidelity and Chicago Title;
 
            (2)
That the alleged undisclosed conflicts were highly material;
 
            (3)
Why Fidelity and FN Law Group failed to name Wilshire State Bank as a defendant
in the Paks Action or obtain a litigation guaranty;
 
            (4)
Fidelity and FN Law Group’s motivation for failing to name Wilshire State Bank
as a defendant in the Paks Action or obtain a litigation guaranty;
 
            (5)
That the undisclosed conflicts of interest undermined Fidelity’s use of the
Paks Action as a curative lawsuit; and
 
            (6)
Why Lin was directed by Fidelity to move to quash Washington Square’s subpoena
to Chicago Title.
 
            Each
of these purposes for calling Lin has problems with it. As to the first, it
does not appear that Lin would have personal knowledge of this information
because he was Fidelity’s counsel in this action, and does not appear to have
been involved in the Paks Action. Moreover, this subject appears to implicate
attorney-client privileged information. 
 
As to the second, Washington Square argues that Lin’s
litigation conduct in opposing the subpoena and motion to compel against
Chicago Title demonstrates that Fidelity was acting in bad faith to hide the
conflict of interest. But this argument goes to Chicago Title’s reason for
opposing the subpoena, which Lin would only know from communications subject to
the attorney-client privilege. The same is true for the sixth purpose, which is
essentially a further explanation of the second.
 
The third, fourth, and fifth purposes are all issues of FN
Law Group’s litigation conduct and Washington Square’s claim that Fidelity
inappropriately directed FN Law Group to act against Washington Square’s best
interests in the Paks Litigation. But Washington Square does not explain why
Lin would have had access to any of this information. Lin does not appear to
have been involved in the representation of Washington Square in the Paks
Action. If Washington Square’s argument is that Fidelity would have told Lin
the relevant information in connection with this action, then those
communications are subject to attorney-client privilege.
 
In addition to these problems, Washington Square’s effort to
call Lin as a witness at trial is at best of such tangential relevance that any
benefit of calling him is outweighed by the undue use of trial time and the
undue prejudice caused by calling Fidelity’s former counsel. For those reasons,
the Court excludes Lin’s testimony under Evidence Code Section 352.
 
The Court therefore grants the motion to quash. The Court
denies sanctions.
 
Orders on Motions In Limine
 
The Court DENIES Fidelity’s and Washington Square’s motions
in limine with the following exceptions:
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Fidelity’s Motion in Limine No. 11
as follows.  Mr. Keller shall not be
permitted to testify at trial as to any opinion he did not offer at the time of
his deposition.  As to those opinions,
the Court may hold a hearing under Evidence Code Section 402 to determine
whether such opinions are admissible.
 
The Court GRANTS Fidelity’s Motion in Limine No. 13.  Neither party shall produce evidence of the
$6,000 discovery sanctions against Chicago Title Co.  Such evidence would require an undue use of
trial time and is more prejudicial than probative.  The Court excludes such evidence under
Evidence Code Section 352.
 
With respect to Washington Square’s Motion in Limine No. 16,
the Court admonishes Fidelity to avoid questions of Mr. Zimmerman that seek to
elicit information covered by the attorney-client privilege or work product
doctrine.
 
“In limine motions are designed to facilitate the management
of a case, generally by deciding difficult evidentiary issues in advance of
trial.”  (Eng v. Brown (2018) 21
Cal.App. 5th 675, 698 [citation omitted].) “What in limine motions are not designed
to do is to replace the dispositive motions prescribed by the Code of Civil
Procedure.  It has become increasingly
common, however, for litigants to utilize in limine motions for this purpose.”
(Amtower v. Photon Dynamics, Inc. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1582, 1593 [emphasis
in original].)   
 
With very few exceptions, both parties have attempted to use
the in limine process as a substitute for dispositive motions. Fidelity has
filed nineteen motions in limine. Washington Square has filed seventeen.  Almost all of them ask the Court to decide
some fact issue in favor of one of the parties, or issue summary adjudication
or directed verdict on some large or small issue in the case.  The Court declines to rule on case-dispositive
or issue-dispositive legal matters at the in limine stage, on the eve of trial,
without the benefit of the appropriate procedure under California law. The
parties could have raised such issues at the pleading stage or on summary
judgment. They may raise them if appropriate at the directed verdict or
post-judgment stage or in the context of jury instructions.  They are not an appropriate use of the in
limine procedure.
 
Certain of the in limine motions have other problems, such
as being too general (e.g., Washington Square’s Motion in Limine No. 6) or raising
issues that appear to be uncontroversial and thus evidencing a failure to meet
and confer on these issues (e.g., Fidelity’s Motion in Limine No. 4 and Washington
Square’s Motions in Limine Nos 13 and 15).
 
For these reasons, except as noted, the Court denies the in
limine motions.