  Case Number:  23PSCV03141    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin,
Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria
Gallegos
 
Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin,
Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria
Gallegos
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint and Motion to Strike Punitive Damages are CONTINUED to a date to
be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to
file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at
least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND

This is a wrongful death action arising from
a motor vehicle collision. In November 2022, Alberto J. Gutierrez was the
passenger of a 2006 GMC Sierra that was travelling eastbound on Route 66 in
Glendora near the intersection of Hunters Trail. As a result of the allegedly
narrow construction of the road, Alberto Gutierrez’s truck was forced off the
road by a vehicle in the other lane and collided with a wall on the southside
of the roadway. Alberto Gutierrez was killed after the impact caused the truck
to flip over.
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Alicia
Olivares, individually and as successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez;
Stephanie Watkin, individually and as successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez;
Amaris Violet Gutierrez, by and through Watkin as guardian ad litem; Abel
Valentino Gutierrez, by and through Watkin as guardian ad litem; and Angelina
Victoria Gallegos, individually and as successor in interest to Alberto
Gutierrez (collectively, Gutierrez Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against
Defendants City of Glendora (the City), Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (LACMTA), the Metro Gold Line Foothill Extension
Construction Authority (MGLFECA), Kiewit Corporation (Kiewit), Fernando Vasquez
Barrera, and Does 1-200, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
negligence, (2) dangerous condition of public property, (3) negligence per se, (4)
loss of consortium, (5) wrongful death, and (6) survival.
 
On December 8, 2023, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs
amended the Complaint to replace Doe 1 with Defendant Kiewit-Parsons and Doe 2
with Defendant Kiewit Infrastructure West Co. (Kiewit West). On December 11,
the Gutierrez Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to replace Doe 3 with Defendant
Parsons Construction Group Inc. (Parsons).
 
On February 2, 2024, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the
same causes of action.
 
On February 20, 2024, LACMTA filed a
cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and Does 1-10, alleging causes of
action for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory
relief. On the same day, MGLFECA also filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez
Barrera and Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnification, (2)
apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory relief.
 
On March 5, 2024, Kiewit, Kiewit-Parsons,
Kiewit West, and Parsons (collectively, Kiewit-Parsons Defendants) filed the
present demurrer and motion to strike.
 
On March 6, 2024, the Kiewit-Parsons
Defendants filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and Roes 1-50,
alleging causes of action for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3)
comparative fault, and (4) declaratory relief.
 
A hearing on the present demurrer and motion
to strike is set for March 27, 2024, along with an OSC Re: Failure to File
Proof of Service and case management conference.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The Kiewit-Parsons Defendants demur to the Gutierrez
Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action (negligence), second cause of action (dangerous condition of public
property), third cause of action (negligence per se), fourth cause of action
(loss of consortium), and fifth cause of action (wrongful death). For the following reasons, the court finds parties did not
adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case,
the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ counsel filed a declaration suggesting counsel
met and conferred orally with the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ counsel on January 24,
2024, with regards to the original Complaint and a proposed FAC. (Fersch Decl.,
¶ 12-13.) But counsel does not describe any code-compliant attempt to meet and
confer after the Gutierrez Plaintiffs filed the operative FAC on February 2. Accordingly,
the court finds a continuance of the hearing on the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’
demurrer and motion to strike is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike
are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G
(Pomona).
 
The Kiewit-Parsons
Defendants’ counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ counsel
regarding the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing.