  Case Number:  22STCV20465    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  ROSA STEPHENSON,Plaintiff, vs. POMONA HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENER, LLC, et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV20465 Hearing Date:  November 30, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  PLAINITFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INERROGATORIES, SET ONE BY DEFENDANT POMONA HEALTHCARE AND WELLNESSPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED.Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses without objections within 10 days after the date of this order. Sanctions in the amount of $2,310 are imposed against Defendant. Sanctions are payable within 10 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for elder abuse and negligent hiring. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent Rosa Stephenson was a patient at Park Avenue Healthcare & Wellness Center in Pomona, California in February 2022. Defendants failed to turn Decedent every two hours to avoid the development of pressure sores, causing Plaintiff to develop severe pressure sores. Defendants’ facility was understaffed and there were no employees who could assess and treat Plaintiffs’ skin conditions. After Plaintiff was discharged from the facility, the facility was investigated by the California Department of Public Health, which found that the facility had violated federal regulations.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 22, 2022, Rosa Stephenson filed her Complaint against Pomona Healthcare & Wellness, LLC (“Pomona Healthcare”), Pomona Nursing & Healthcare Centre, LLC, Brius Management Co., and Rockport Administrative Services, LLC.On August 15, 2022, Defendants answered.On December 20, 2022, the parties participated in IDC.On December 23, 2022, Rosa Stephenson passed away and the action was temporarily abated.On August 3, 2023, the parties again participated in IDC.On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff Penny Lyles, individually and as successor in interest to Rosa Stephenson, filed this motion to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for orders compelling Defendant to produce further responses to Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”), set two. I. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure, section 2030.300, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) the answer to a particular interrogatory is incomplete or evasive, (2) the exercise of the option to produce documents is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is improper or inadequate, or (3) that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. Such a motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,” which “shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2016.040, 2030.300(b)(1).) Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300, subdivision (d) authorizes a mandatory issuance of sanctions against “any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300, subd. (d).) II. DiscussionPlaintiff moves to compel Pomona Healthcare’s further responses to Special Interrogatories numbers 10, 22, 23, 28, 29.Pomona Healthcare originally served responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”), Set One on December 9, 2022. (Motion, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that the parties participated in IDC in December 2022 and agreed Pomona Healthcare would provide supplemental responses to SROGs 10, 22, 23, 28, 29, and 30. (Partain Decl., ¶4.) However, the parties’ proposed order was never signed because Rosa Stephenson passed away shortly after the IDC. (Id.) At the August 3, 2023 IDC, Pomona Healthcare again agreed to provide further responses and failed to do so. (Id., ¶5.) Pomona Healthcare represents that it served supplemental responses on November 15, 2023. (Cowdrey Decl., ¶2.) Plaintiff argues that even if Pomona Healthcare served responses, the responses are unverified and that there are no responses as to Interrogatories 10 and 23. The responses attached to Plaintiff’s opposition are not verified. Because the responses are not verified, they are tantamount to no response at all. Thus, the operative responses are still the deficient responses originally served on December 9, 2022. Plaintiff seeks further responses to the following:Special Interrogatory 10: Please IDENTIFY each person who made any entry in the Medication Administration Record relating to the PLAINTIFF during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.Special Interrogatory 22: Please IDENTIFY each member of the FACILITY “patient care committee: which is responsible to “establish policies governing the following services: physician, dental, nursing, dietetic, pharmaceutical, health records, housekeeping, activity programs…” consistent with the provisions of 22 California Code of Regulations §72525 during the residency of the PLAINTIFF in the FACILITY.Special Interrogatory 23: Please IDENTIFY the individual(s) responsible for setting the FACILITY operating budget which was in effect during the time the PLAINTIFF was a resident of the FACILITY.Special Interrogatory 28: For each pressure sore developed by the PLAINTIFF while she was a resident at the FACILITY, state the date on which the pressure sore was first discovered by the FACILITY.Special Interrogatory 29: For each pressure sore developed by the PLAINTIFF while she was a resident at the FACILITY, state the location of the pressure sore on the PLAINTIFF’s body.In response to Interrogatories 10, 22, and 23, Pomona Healthcare responded: “Responding party is still in the process of conducting a reasonable search and diligent inquiry regarding the responsive information. Discovery and investigation are continuing, and responding defendant reserves its right to amend this response or provide a further response at a later date.”Interrogatory 10 directly seeks information about Plaintiff’s care at the facility. Thus, the information is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims that Pomona Healthcare failed to provide proper care during her time as a patient there. Plaintiff argues that the information about Pomona Healthcare’s budget is relevant to Plaintiff’s claim that Pomona Healthcare made a conscious decision to reduce costs by hiring untrained staff and failing to adequately care for Plaintiff. The questions about Pomona Healthcare’s budget are thus discoverable. Pomona Healthcare did not provide a complete response to the interrogatories because it claimed an investigation was ongoing. Because it has been nearly a year since the original interrogatory responses were served, the motion is granted with respect to interrogatories 1, 22, and 23. In response to Interrogatories 28 and 29, Pomona Healthcare responded: “The answer to this interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is directed, and the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party. Therefore, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230, the writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained is plaintiff’s facility chart.”The information about the discovery of Decedents sores is relevant because it is directly related to Decedent’s care. Plaintiff argues in her separate statement that the facility chart does not have the required name, residence address, and telephone of the witnesses within them. Thus, the information Plaintiff seeks may not be derived or ascertained from the facility chart. The motion is granted with respect to Interrogatories 28 and 29.Sanctions are mandatory because Pomona Healthcare unsuccessfully opposed this motion. DATED:  November 30, 2023______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court