  Case Number:  22NWCV00993    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  C RAMIREZ v. FAUST  CASE NO.:  22NWCV00993 HEARING:  12/12/24  #7  Nonparty ESTATE OF LEDA FAUST’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication is OFF CALENDAR.   On the Court’s Own Motion, this Action is DISMISSED without prejudice.   Court Clerk to give notice.   BACKGROUND    This action for quiet title by adverse possession was filed by Plaintiffs PAIGE A. BURKE and LEONARDO RAMIREZ (collectively “Plaintiffs”) against Defendants LEON FAUST; LEDA FAUST TRUSTEES OF FAUST TRUST; ROGER E. FAUST; and Does 1 through 25, inclusive; and All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal Or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest in the Property Described in the Complaint Adverse to Plaintiffs Title, or any Cloud on Plaintiffs Title or Any Cloud on Plaintiffs Title Thereto, Named herein, as Does 26 through 100, inclusive, on October 13, 2022.   An Order for Publication of Summons was entered on December 9, 2022 permitting Plaintiffs leave to serve the original Complaint by publication. The Court’s file does not reflect that service of the original Complaint was ever effectuated.   On August 28, 2023, the operative Verified First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. The Court’s file does not reflect that service of the FAC, by publication or otherwise, was ever effectuated.   Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges the following relevant facts: “This case involves the residential property located at 9602 Florpark Street, Pico Rivera, California (the ‘Property’).” (FAC ¶8) “Plaintiffs have been residing at the property since at least 2009. [¶] The original owners Leon Faust and Leda Faust as husband and wife held the property in the Faust Trust. Both Leon Faust and Leda Faust are deceased. [¶] Leon and Leda Faust had a son, Roger E. Faust who died on 2/20/2014. [¶] Upon information and belief, there are no other siblings.” (FAC ¶¶10-13.) Plaintiffs allege that on April 27, 2012, Roger Faust wrote and notarized a document stating that upon his death the Property would be left to Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶14.) Plaintiffs appear to indicate that the April 27, 2012 notarized document referenced in ¶14 of the FAC is attached as Exhibit 1 to the FAC. However, upon review of the FAC on file with the Court, no exhibits were attached or separately lodged in conjunction with the FAC.    Plaintiffs allege that they relied on the April 27, 2012 Document to their detriment, and believed  in good faith that “they took immediate lawful possession the Property and were the rightful owners following Roger Faust’s death either as outright owners or in the alternative by Adverse Possession.” (FAC ¶15.) “Since… Defendant Roger E. Faust passed on 2/20/2014, Plaintiffs have paid all taxes, utilities, maintenance, and repair costs for and saved the subject property [f]rom state tax lien for unpaid taxes. [¶] Plaintiffs have records showing they have paid all expenses related to the Property, including the taxes, utilities, and repairs.” (FAC ¶¶16-17.)   Plaintiffs “seek to quiet title and or in the alternative by adverse possession to the subject property plus any additional relief.” (FAC ¶1.)   The FAC asserts the following causes of action:   Quiet Title;  Abandonment;  Exclusive Easement;  Recovery by one Defrauded in Purchase, Sale, or Exchange of Property;  [There is no 5th cause of action in the FAC];  Promissory Estoppel; and  Declaratory Relief   RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY  On April 3, 2024, Nonparty ESTATE OF LEDA FAUST, by way of Personal Representative Taylor Moore (“Estate of Leda Faust”) FILED an Answer to the First Amended Complaint. In the Answer, the Estate of Leda Faust states: “[a]t the time of this Answer, the Estate of Leda Faust has not been served.” (Answer 2:4.)   Nonparty Estate of Leda Faust’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication (“Motion”) was FILED on July 1, 2024. The Moving Papers indicate that “[e]ach of the named defendants, LEON FAUST, LEDA FAUST and ROGER FAUST, are deceased. According to the Verified Complaint, LEON FAUST and LEDA FAUST predeceased their son, ROGER FAUST…. Roger died in 2015. [¶] Defendant, TAYLOR MOORE, Personal Representative of the Estate of LEDA FAUST, was appointed by the court on June 8, 2023.” (Motion 3:8-14.)   This matter was initially heard on September 19, 2024, and the matter was taken under submission. No written Opposition had  been filed in response to this Motion prior to the initial hearing date.   A Notice of Related Case citing the existence of probate action Estate of Leda Faust, Case No. 23STPB04036 was filed in this action on October 9, 2024. Dept. 1 will rule. Pending adjudication in the probate action regarding the Estate of Leda Faust is a Petition to Determine Ownership of Alleged Real Property and for Order Authorizing and Directing Distribution of Property to Probate. Pursuant to judicially noticeable documents on file with this Court, the Petition filed in the Probate Court seeks an Order to confirm that the real property at issue in this subject action is part of Decedent Leda Faust’s probate estate. (See Pet. Filed in Case No. 23STPB04036 filed 08/30/2023).    Having taken the Motion under submission on September 19, 2024, this Court issued an Order on November 8, 2024 to continue the subject Motion and set an OSC re: Dismissal of Defendants Leon Faust; Leda Faust Trustee of Faust Trust; and Roger E. Faust to be heard on December 13, 2024 in order to address the Estate of Leda Faust’s nonparty status and whether the individually named Decedent Defendants and Trust Defendant should be dismissed from the action.   On November 8, 2024, the following Order was issued by the Honorable Olivia Rosales from Dept. SE-F: “The unaccounted for/not served are dismissed without prejudice as follows: [¶] As to the order to show cause the Court orders Leon Faust, All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest in the Property Described in the Complaint Adverse to Plaintiff’s Title, or Any Cloud on Plaintiff’s Title Thereto, named herein as Does 26-10 and Roger E. Faust in Amended Complaint (1st) filed by Leonardo Ramires, et al. on 08/28/2023 dismissed without prejudice. Plaintiff has no objection.” (Min. Order., 11/08/24.)   An Opposition to the instant Motion was due by no later than September 5, 2024. (CCP §437c(b)(2). As of September 19, 2024, no Opposition had been filed with the Court. On November 15, 2024, after the Motion had already initially been heard, and without leave of Court, Plaintiffs filed an untimely Opposition to the Estate of Leda Faust’s pending Motion.   On November 19, 2024, the Subject Motion and the OSC re: Dismissal was continued on the Court’s own Motion to be heard on December 13, 2024.   On December 6, 2024, Nonparty Estate of Leda Faust filed a Reply to the Motion for Summary Judgment.   As indicated above, as of December 12, 2024, no Proof of Service has been filed with respect to the First Amended Complaint and no ruling has been issued by Dept. 1 on the Notice of Related Case filed on October 9, 2024. The Probate Action pertaining to Decedent Leda Faust’s assets is ongoing.    The parties are reminded of their duty to file the Notice of Related Case in Dept. 1 if they have not already done so. “Where the cases listed in a Notice of Related Cases contains a probate.. case, Department 1 shall determine whether the case shall be ordered related and, if so, to which department they shall be assigned if the cases are all pending in the Central District or pending in two different districts…. In addition to filing the Notice of Related Cases in the departments of all pending cases, a copy of the Notice of Related Cases must be filed in Department 1 for matters to be determined in Department 1….” (LASC Local Rule 3.3(f)(2).)   NONPARTY ESTATE OF LEDA FAUST’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION   Defendant Estate of Leda Faust, via personal representative Taylor Moore (“Estate of Leda Faust”), moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication arguing that Plaintiffs’ claims fail as a matter of law and because the complaint is verified, “the facts pled actually establish that there is no legal theory on which they could prevail due to the time that has elapsed and the fact that only party against whom they might have been able to seek redress died nine years ago.” (Motion 11:14-19.)   However, as indicated above, Plaintiffs have not named the Estate of Leda Faust as a defendant in this action. The FAC is asserted against Leda Faust Trustees of Faust Trust. Neither Leda Faust, individually; nor the Estate of Leda Faust have been named as parties.   No Proofs of Service have been filed with the Court to evidence that either the initial Complaint or the FAC have been served (by publication or otherwise). Therefore, no parties—including the Estate of Leda Faust have been served with notice of this action.   To date, no Motion to Intervene has been filed or scheduled with this Court. A nonparty has the right to intervene in litigation between others where the nonparty claims an interest in the property or transaction involved in the litigation, and is so situated that any judgment rendered in the nonparty’s absence “may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest.” (Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 560, 572-573.)   The Estate of Leda Faust argues in Reply that intervention is not required or appropriate, yet cites no relevant law to support this argument. The fact that “All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest In The Property Described in The Complaint Adverse to Plaintiff’s Title, or Any Could Upon Plaintiff’s Title Thereto” is listed as a defendant, does not mean that the Estate of Leda Faust is automatically added to the action as a defendant because it claims an interest to the Subject Property. There are several ways a nonparty may be added to an action.  A plaintiff may seek leave to amend a complaint.  A plaintiff may file a Doe amendment after discovering the true name of a defendant.  Or a nonparty (someone not previously served as party to an action or ordered joined as a party) may seek leave to unite with defendant(s) in resisting a plaintiff’s claims. (CCP §387(b).) None of these have occurred in this case.  Moreover, All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal Right, Title, Estate, Lien, or Interest In The Property Described in The Complaint Adverse to Plaintiff’s Title, or Any Could Upon Plaintiff’s Title Thereto were dismissed without prejudice from this action on November 8, 2024.   Because the Estate of Leda Faust is not a named defendant to this action, and the Estate of Leda Faust has not sought leave to intervene in this action, the Court is now tasked with the issue of whether the Estate of Leda Faust is a necessary party to this action, warranting joinder.   NECESSARY PARTIES   “A person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that he be made a party.” (emphasis added.) (CCP §389(a.)   The Court determines that the omitted party “Estate of Leda Faust” is a necessary party to this action since “[a] quiet title judgment cannot be entered in the absence of all parties with an interest in the property at issue.” (Ranch at the Falls LLC v. O’Neal (2019) 28 Cal.App.5th 155, 173.) The parties do not dispute that there is a petition pending adjudication in an ongoing LASC probate action which seeks a determination that the same real property at issue in this subject action is part of Decedent Leda Faust’s probate estate. (See Pet. Filed in Case No. 23STPB04036 filed 08/30/2023).    Following the initial determination under CCP §389(a), “[i]f a person who qualifies as a necessary party ‘cannot be made a party’ to the action, the court must determine under [CCP §389] subdivision (b) whether ‘in equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person thus regarded as indispensable.”’ (Doe v. Regents of the Univ. of Cal. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 282, 301.) Thus, a party may be deemed   The Court does not find that the Estate of Leda Faust qualifies as an indispensable party because the Estate of Leda Faust could have been made a party to this action. Had Plaintiffs acted diligently to ensure that all interested parties received notice and service of this litigation, Plaintiffs would have been afforded the opportunity to file and serve a Second Amended Complaint naming the Estate of Leda Faust as a party to this action. However, for reasons stated below, and given Plaintiffs’ continued refusal to serve the operative pleading on known parties, or seek leave to amend the operative pleading to assert claims on newly discovered parties, the Court exercises its discretion under CCP §583.420(a)(1) to dismiss Plaintiffs’ action.   As such, Nonparty Estate of Leda Faust’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Motion for Summary Adjudication is placed OFF-CALENDAR. The Estate of Leda Faust is not a party to this action and this Court is without jurisdiction to adjudicate its rights. The Answer filed by Estate of Leda of Faust on April 3, 2024 is STRICKEN.   As an aside, the Court notes that any claims arising out of tort or breach of contract, etc. against the Decedents Robert Faust (d. 1999); Leda Faust (d. 2006); or Roger Faust (d. 2015) may be barred by the one-year statute of limitations under CCP §366.2.  OSC RE: DISMISSAL    The OSC Re: Dismissal as to Defendants LEON FAUST and ROGER E. FAUST is OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT pursuant to Judge Rosales’ November 8, 2024 Order.   The Court notes that as to the named defendant Leda Faust Trustees of Faust Trust—a trust cannot sue or be sued or otherwise act in its own name; instead a trustee acts on behalf of the trust. (Han v. Hallberg (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 621, 632.) A trust can only appear in litigation through its trustee who must be the named party to the action. (See Presta v. Tepper (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 909, 914.) Here, no trustee has been named as a party to this action.   In accordance with CRC Rule 3.1340(b), the parties were served with notice of this OSC re: Dismissal hearing on November 8, 2024.   On its on Motion, the Court dismisses this action for delay in prosecution for failure to serve Defendants within two years after the action was commenced against defendants. (CCP §§583.410(a); 583.420(a)(1).) The complaint in a civil action must be served on all named defendants, and proof of service filed, within 60 days after the filing of the Complaint. (See CRC Rule 3.110(b).) Pursuant to CCP §583.420(a)(1), the Court may, in the exercise of its discretion, dismiss an action when service is not made within two years after the action is commenced against the defendant(s). The two-year period starts to run the moment the Complaint is filed. (See CCP §583.210(a).) Once the two-year statutory period has expired, the burden is on the plaintiff to show some sort of excuse for the delay in service; e.g., estoppel, waiver, tolling, “impossible, impracticable, or futile.” (See Putnam v. Clague (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 542, 549.)   The only remaining named defendant is Leda Faust Trustees of Faust Trust. This action was filed on October 13, 2022. As of December 12, 2024, no Proofs of Service have been filed or presented to this Court. Plaintiffs have not shown any excuse for failing to serve/make efforts to serve any of the defendants during the first two years the action was pending.   Nonparty Estate of Leda Faust filed an Answer on April 3, 2024, and a Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication on July 1, 2024. The filing of these documents should have put Plaintiffs on notice of the true identity and service information of a necessary party to their action.  Where there are no remaining defendants, this action is DISMISSED without prejudice. (CCP §581(b)(4).)  