  Case Number:  23CHCV02952    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 8/7/24                                                             
TRIAL DATE: 9/29/25
Case #23CHCV02952
 
MOTION TO
DETERMINE DIRECTORS OF CORPORATION
 
Motion filed on 6/20/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Xi Wang
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff BigBattery, Inc.
NOTICE: ok 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order confirming
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Xi Wang as a Director of Big Battery, Inc., and as
Chair of the Board, and as CEO, and removing officer Clifford Eric Lungren, as
well as other associated relief.  
 
RULING: The motion is denied.    
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a corporate dispute between
Plaintiff BigBattery, Inc. (Big Battery/Company) and one of its shareholders,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Xi Wang (Wang) who BigBattery claims to be a former
officer and director.  
 
In its complaint, BigBattery alleges that Wang used his
access to its bank accounts to embezzle more than $660,000, and then used his
position as an agent of BigBattery to seize and divert major shipments of the
Company inventory to his own facility overseas in Panama for the purpose of
relabeling and reselling the Company inventory as his own property and products
and for his own profit.  BigBattery
alleges Wang concurrently engaged in a broad scheme of publishing and
disseminating false information to Company clients, business partners and
vendors to divert attention from his own conduct and to poison the Company’s
existing and prospective business relationships to further divert, redirect and
usurp these Company business relationships for his own gain and to the
deliberate detriment of the Company.  As
a result of Wang’s alleged wrongful conduct, the Company removed Wang as an
officer and director of the Company.
 
On 10/2/23, BigBattery filed this action against Wang,
Bixia Liu, IT Asset Partners, Inc., BatteryEvo, Inc, and Does 1-10 for: (1)
Conversion, (2) Concealment, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4) Trespass to
Chattels, (5) Intentional Interference With Contractual Relations, (6)
Negligence Misrepresentation, (7) Negligent Interference With Prospective
Economic Advantage and (8) Violation of Business & Professions Code 17200,
et seq. – Intentional Infringement of Right of Integrity and Violation of
Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA).
 
In the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint, Wang alleges
causes of action against BigBattery, Clifford Eric Lundgren (Lundgren) and Does
1-15 for: (1) Determining Directors of Corporation (Corporations Code 709), (2)
Involuntary Dissolution of Corporation, (3) Fraud, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
(5) Imposition of Constructive Trust, and (6) Accounting.  
 
Wang contends that in July 2023, Lundgren wrongfully took
control of the Company by holding a directors and shareholders meeting without
notice to Wang while he out of the country whereat Wang was removed as an
officer and director of the Company. 
Wang further contends that after this litigation was instituted Lundgren
is attempting to move BigBattery from Chatsworth, California to Texas where
this Court will not have jurisdiction over the corporation.
 
Wang contends that beginning in June 2023, Lundgren began
shutting Wang out of all operations of BigBattery by, among other things: (1)
unilaterally filing a Statement of Information on behalf of BigBattery, with
the California Secretary of State, which removed Wang's name as an officer and
director of Big Battery; (2) removing Wang's name as president from
BigBattery’s website; and (3) removing Wang's administration rights for
BigBattery’s email account and ERP system. 
(See Wang Decl.; Mullaney Decl.). 
Wang contends that he did not receive any advanced notice of the above
actions and no shareholder or director meetings were noticed or held.  Id. 
As such, Wang contends that the foregoing actions are legally
ineffective and he Wang legally continues to be a director and corporate
officer of BigBattery.  Wang further
contends that Lundgren has transferred over $500,000.00 of BigBattery’s funds
to an account solely held by Lundgren without providing Wang with BigBattery’s
books and records.  Id.  
 
In contrast, BigBattery contends that Wang was properly removed
from the board of directors and as an officer by a majority vote of two board
members, Lundgren (45.25%) and Marshall Niepert (5%), at an emergency meeting held
on 7/5/23, which was confirmed at subsequent meetings in August and September
of 2023 of which Wang received notice but failed to attend.  (See Lundgren Decl.).
 
On 6/20/24, Wang filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order confirming Defendant/Cross-Complainant Xi Wang as a Director
of BigBattery, Inc., as Chair of the Board, and as CEO, and removing officer
Clifford Eric Lungren, as well as other associated relief.  Big Battery has opposed the motion and Wang
has filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
BigBattery’s objections to the declaration of Xi Wang,
numbers 1-13, are overruled.
 
BigBattery’s objections to the declaration of Robert
Mullaney, numbers 14-15, are overruled.
 
Wang’s objections to the declaration of Clifford Eric
Lundgren, numbers 1-5, are overruled.  
 
Wang fails to provide clear notice of the relief sought
by way of the instant motion.  See
CRC 3.1110(a) (“A notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the
nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of the order.”).  Here, the opening paragraph of the notice of
motion states that Wang is seeking “an order confirming him as a Director of
Big Battery, Inc., and as Chair of the Board, and as CEO, and removing the
wrongdoing officer, Clifford Eric Lungren, as well as other associated relief”
without defining in the notice what actually constitutes the vaguely referenced
“other associated relief.”  (See
Motion, p.1:27-p.2:1).  In the caption of
the notice, Wang indicates that the motion seeks “to determine directors of
corporation” pursuant to Corporations Code 709.
 
Corporations Code 709 provides:
 
“(a) Upon
the filing of an action therefor by any shareholder or by any person who claims
to have been denied the right to vote, the superior court of the proper county
shall try and determine the validity of any election or appointment of any
director of any domestic corporation, or of any foreign corporation if the
election was held or the appointment was made in this state. In the case of a
foreign corporation the action may be brought at the option of the plaintiff in
the county in which the corporation has its principal office in California or in the county in which the
election was held or the appointment was made.
(b) Upon the filing of the
complaint, and before any further proceedings are had, the court shall enter an
order fixing a date for the hearing, which shall be within five days unless for
good cause shown a later date is fixed, and requiring notice of the date for
the hearing and a copy of the complaint to be served upon the corporation and
upon the person whose purported election or appointment is questioned and upon
any person (other than the plaintiff) whom the plaintiff alleges to have been
elected or appointed, in the manner in which a summons is required to be
served, or, if the court so directs, by registered mail; and the court may make
such further requirements as to notice as appear to be proper under the
circumstances.
(c) The court may determine the person entitled to the office of director or
may order a new election to be held or appointment to be made, may determine
the validity, effectiveness and construction of voting agreements and voting
trusts, the validity of the issuance of shares and the right of persons to vote
and may direct such other relief as may be just and proper.”
 
It is not until the end of the memorandum of points and
authorities in support of the motion that Wang indicates that he is actually
seeking the following seven orders for relief by way of the instant motion: 
 
(1) remove Lundgren as director and officer of BigBattery
under Corporations Code 304 and 701, et seq., due to abuse of authority,
mismanagement, and unfair treatment of certain shareholders, particularly
towards Wang (Relief 1); 
(2) confirm Wang as a director and the president of
BigBattery (Relief 2); 
(3) reinstate Wang’s access to BigBattery email account
and ERP system (Relief 3); 
(4) amend the Statement of Information to identify Wang
as BigBattery’s president (Relief 4), 
(5) update BigBattery’s website to reflect Wang’s role as
president (Relief 5); 
(6) return of all funds wrongfully transferred from
BigBattery (Relief 6); and 
(7) conduct an accounting of all funds received and
disbursed by BigBattery from 7/1/23 to the present date (Relief 7).  (See Motion,
p.8:9-p.9:1).   
 
Corporations Code 304 provides: 
 
“The superior court of the proper
county may, at the suit of shareholders holding at least 10 percent of the
number of outstanding shares of any class, remove from office any director in
case of fraudulent or dishonest acts or gross abuse of authority or discretion
with reference to the corporation and may bar from reelection any director so
removed for a period prescribed by the court. The corporation shall be made a
party to such action.”
 
Corporations Code 701 provides: 
 
“(a) In order that the corporation
may determine the shareholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote or
entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment
of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful
action, the board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more
than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to the date of such meeting nor more than
60 days prior to any other action.
(b) If no record date is fixed:
(1) The record date for determining
shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders
shall be at the close of business on the business day next preceding the day on
which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the
business day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(2) The record date for determining
shareholders entitled to give consent to corporate action in writing without a
meeting, when no prior action by the board has been taken, shall be the day on
which the first written consent is given.
(3) The record date for determining
shareholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day
on which the board adopts the resolution relating thereto, or the 60th day
prior to the date of such other action, whichever is later.
(c) A determination of shareholders
of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall
apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the board fixes a new record
date for the adjourned meeting, but the board shall fix a new record date if
the meeting is adjourned for more than 45 days from the date set for the
original meeting.
(d) Shareholders at the close of
business on the record date are entitled to notice and to vote or to receive
the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as
the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of the
corporation after the record date, except as otherwise provided in the articles
or by agreement or in this division.”
 
By way of the instant motion, Wang is not merely attempting
to have the Court summarily determine the validity of any election or
appointment of any director or determine the person entitled to the office of
director as permitted by Corporations Code 709. 
Rather, Wang improperly seeks to have the Court adjudicate discovery
disputes and the merits of the gravamen of the claims in the complaint and
cross-complaint.  (See Motion,
p.8:9-p.9:1; Reply, generally).
 
In the reply, Wang has not addressed his failure to
attend the August and September board meetings whereat his removal as an
officer and director were confirmed.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied.