 Case Number:  21STCV46452    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  ANNETTE BREWER,Plaintiff;  vs. METHODIST HOSPITAL OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA,Defendant.  Case No.:  21STCV46452 Hearing Date:  December 13, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION AND FORM INTERROGATORIESPlaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to form interrogatories is GRANTED as to form interrogatory 12.1.Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to requests for production is DENIED as to request 25 and GRANTED in part as to Requests Nos. 27 and 29. The Court already granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel with respect to requests 26 and 28 on December 12, 2023.Within 20 days after the date of this order, Defendant must produce further verified responses and responsive documents as set forth below.Sanctions in the amount of $1,350 are imposed jointly and severally on Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record. Sanctions are payable 20 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for violations of the California Family Rights Act, violations of the Labor Code, wrongful termination, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that she is a former employee of Defendant and worked as a secretary for outpatient surgery and then as a secretary/monitor technician for the orthopedics department. In June 2020, Plaintiff complained to her manager that her workload was increased and that she was working well-past her scheduled hours because the hospital was short-staffed. Plaintiff also complained that she was experiencing workplace bullying. In August 2020, Plaintiff was transferred to a different department where she began being verbally harassed by her new manager who accused her of not helping out with patient care despite the fact that she was not a nurse. Plaintiff’s work environment became unbearably hostile, and her manager would not relieve her for lunch or breaks. When Plaintiff complained, the manager yelled and berated Plaintiff in front of other employees. In September 2020, Plaintiff complained to human resources about her department’s lack of personal protective equipment. Plaintiff’s manager began making threatening gestures to her which she believed was retaliatory. In November 2020, Plaintiff became unwell at work and was tested for COVID-19. After she returned to work after receiving her test results, she was subjected to burdensome work conditions. In early December, 2020, Plaintiff fell ill and took medical leave in January 2021. When Plaintiff returned, she was terminated for taking medical leave. PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn December 21, 2021, Plaintiff Annette Brewer filed her Complaint against Defendant Methodist Hospital of Southern California.On March 18, 2022, Defendant answered.On August 18, 2023, the parties participated in IDC.On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production (“RPDs”) and Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”).I. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: 1. A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; 2. A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 3. An objection in the response is without merit or too general. To prevail, the party moving for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 2030.300, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) the answer to a particular interrogatory is incomplete or evasive, (2) the exercise of the option to produce documents is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is improper or inadequate, or (3) that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300(b)(1).) Sanctions are mandatory against “any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, requests for production, or requests for admission, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310(h), 2030.300(d), 2033.290(d).) Sanctions may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a). ) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).)II. DiscussionPlaintiff’s counsel testifies that she originally propounded RPDs and FROGs on Defendant on October 26, 2022. (Banker Decl., ¶1.) On January 3, 2023, Defendant served its responses to the RPDs and FROGs. (Id., ¶2.) On February 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s counsel regarding deficiencies in its responses. (Id., ¶3.) On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to narrow FROGs 12.2, 12.3, 12.6, 12.7, and 16.1 and RPDs 25-29. (Id., ¶5.) On March 7, 2023, Defendant’s counsel agreed to produce further documents at the end of March and agreed to extend the deadline to file a motion to compel further responses to 10 days after Defendant produced additional documents. (Id., ¶6.) On April 3, 2023, Defendant represented it would produce documents by April 10, 2023. (Id., ¶7.) Plaintiff inquired after the missing responses again on April 18, 2023, May 11, 2023, and June 28, 2023. (Id., ¶¶8-9.) At IDC in August 2023, Defendant’s counsel stated he would be producing documents shortly. (Id., ¶11.) As of the date of the filing of this motion, Defendant has not produced any documents. (Id., ¶12.) FROGsDefendant’s counsel represents that he served supplemental responses to the FROG. (Opp., Exh. A.) On reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s delay in serving the supplemental responses was inexcusable. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the response to FROG 12.6 was not proper because Defendant did not provide a full response.The FROG asks if a report was made concerning the incident, including other information such as information about the person who made the report, information about the report, and contact information for the reporter and the person who possesses the original copy of the report. Defendant’s response to this FROG states “yes. See plaintiff’s personnel file and occupational health file.”Although Plaintiff’s personnel file and occupational health file may contain the report, it does not necessarily contain the other information sought, such as contact information for the reporter and the person who possesses the original report. Thus, Defendant must provide a supplemental response responding to all subparts of FROG 12.6.RPDsDefendant’s counsel alleges he served responses to RPDs 25, 26, and 28 on November 27, 2023. (Garcia Decl., ¶¶3-4.) The responses are verified. (Opp., Exh. A.) As discussed in the previous hearing on Plaintiff’s first motion to compel further RPDs, Defendant must provide a verified further response indicating that there are no documents responsive to RPDs 26 and 28. Because Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant provided supplemental responses to RPD 25, the motion is denied with respect to RPD 25.Defendant objects to RPDs 27 and 29 on the grounds that the oppressive and burdensome, violate Evid. Code, section 1157, and invade the privacy of Defendant’s other employees.Plaintiff argues that RPDs 27 and 29 seek “me too” evidence and that Plaintiff is entitled to the discovery of this evidence. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that Evid. Code, section 1157 is not relevant because the requests do not seek medical information and does not seek internal investigation files.RPD 27 requests “Any and all DOCUMENTS referring to COMPLAINTS made by any employees against Kelly Rivers.”RPD 29 requests “Any and all DOCUMENTS referring to COMPLAINTS made by any employees against ANAHID.”At IDC, the parties agreed to limit the RPDs to complaints concerning “harassment, discrimination, retaliation, and health and safety issues.” Defendant argues that the request is still overbroad and involves the privacy of third parties.Evid. Code 1157prohibits the discovery of records of organized committees of a hospital or of a peer review body that has the responsibility of evaluation and improvement of the quality of care rendered in the hospital or applicable organization. (Evid. Code, section 1157(a).) Courts have ruled that immunity under Evid. Code, section 1157(a) extends to the proceedings and records of the applicable staff committees, but does not extend to the files of the hospital administration excluding portions of the file which may reflect the proceedings of staff committees conforming to section 1157. (Willits v. Superior Court (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 90, 96, citing Matchett v. Superior Court (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 623, 628.)With respect to Evid. Code, section 1157, the section does not protect the files of hospital administration that do not reflect proceedings of an applicable staff committee or other covered committee. Additionally, the RPDs do not request records of proceedings of any staff committee or other covered committee. Thus, Defendant may produce the portions of its files with respect to complaints made by other employees against Rivers and Anahid that do not reflect the proceedings of a committee or other body protected under Evid. Code, section 1157.The final issue is whether discovery of the complaints made by other employees is precluded by the employees’ protected privacy interests. When evaluating invasions of the right to privacy in discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish “(1) a legally protected privacy interest; (2) a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances; and (3) conduct by defendant constituting a serious invasion of privacy.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 834, 865.) A responding party may prevail by negating any of these three elements “or by pleading and proving, as an affirmative defense, that the invasion of privacy is justified because it substantively furthers one or more countervailing interests.” (Id.) “[T]he party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533.) A court then balances these competing considerations. (Id.) As guidance in balancing these competing considerations, it should be noted, “[o]nly obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Id.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and protective measures.” (Id.) California’s Constitutional right to privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled disclosure of various private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This includes employment records.¿¿(See Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 526.) Testimony from other employees that they too were discriminated against may be relevant in a discrimination claim depending on how closely related the evidence is to plaintiff’s circumstances and the theory of the case. (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy/Spastic Children's Foundation of Los Angeles and Ventura Counties (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 767 (citing Sprint/United Management Co. v. Mendelsohn (2008) 552 U.S. 379, 388.) Such complaints may show that a stated nondiscriminatory reason for an employer’s conduct was merely a pretext for an actual reason which is wrongful under employment law. (Id at p. 761.)Courts have found that information that is directly relevant and essential to the fair resolution of a lawsuit may overcome a privacy right. (Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1425.) The party seeking discovery of private matters must do more than satisfy the relevancy standard and must demonstrate a compelling need for the discovery that is so strong as to outweigh the privacy right when these two compelling interests are carefully balanced. (Id.)Here, Defendant’s employees have a right to privacy regarding their employment records, including complaints the employees made about Rivers and Anahid. Defendant’s employees would reasonably expect complaints they made about another employee or supervisor to be private. Discovery of these complaints by an unrelated employee would constitute a breach of the employees’ privacy. The Court now balances competing considerations. On the other hand, employee complaints about two other employees, Rivers and Anahid, would likely contain private information. Plaintiff herself alleges that she suffered discrimination over her illness and medical leave. Thus, other employees whose circumstances were close to Plaintiff’s would reasonably have included medical information in any complaints against Rivers and Anahid. In Williams, the plaintiff there sought the contact information of other employees which would not have required a serious invasion of privacy. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 555.) Additionally, the plaintiff there was seeking civil penalties on behalf of other aggrieved employees, meaning other employees would have wanted their contact information to be disclosed. (Id at p.559.) Here, the information Plaintiff seeks includes much more detailed personal information about other employees’ discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and health and safety complaints, which may include disclosure of other employees’ medical information. Therefore, disclosure of these complaints may constitute a serious invasions of privacy and Plaintiff must show a compelling interest in the information.Plaintiff provides case law supporting her argument that complaints made by other employees are relevant to her claims for discrimination, harassment, failure to prevent harassment, and punitive damages. Although Plaintiff has shown that the information would be relevant to her claims, Plaintiff provides no other evidence or reasoning that the information is essential to the fair resolution of this action at this time.Here, in an effort to balance privacy rights and Plaintiff’s need for the information, the Court orders that Defendant must produce the name and last known contact information of an employees for whom there is responsive information with respect to RPDs 27 and 29. as limited to harassment, discrimination, retaliation and health and safety issues. The name and last known contact information shall be provided pursuant to a protective order.  SanctionsThe Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions as to the motion to compel further responses to FROGs. Defendant did not serve supplemental responses until November 2023, three months after Defendant agreed to produce supplemental responses. Additionally, Defendant provides no basis for failing to provide a complete response to FROG 12.1. The Court finds that Defendant’s conduct amounts to misuse of the discovery process. Plaintiff’s request for $1,350 in sanctions for three hours of attorney time at a rate of $450 per hour is granted.As for the motion to compel further responses to RPDs, the Court already granted Plaintiff’s request for sanctions as to its first motion regarding other RPDs. The Court declines to grant further sanctions for the same set of RPDs.DATED:  December 12, 2023______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court