  Case Number:  20STCV32769    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  30 MADEEHA RASUL vs JACK DOUGLAS BARNESRe: Motion for Terminating SanctionsRuling:Motion for Terminating Sanctions is GRANTED.  The Complaint is dismissed with prejudice.  Moving party to give notice.Rationale: Defendant served two Demands for a Medical Examination back in March 2022, with two separate doctors, scheduled for May 2022 examinations. Plaintiff failed to appear at these examinations. Defendant attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff about future examinations, with no response from Plaintiff. Defendant filed a motion to compel medical examinations. This Court order Plaintiff to sit for two examinations on June 15, 2023, and July 25, 2023. However, Plaintiff failed to sit the first exam. Defendant contacted Plaintiff’s counsel regarding these failed appearances and was informed that Plaintiff lives in Northern California. (Dec. Nguyen, ¶ 18.) However, Plaintiff has still failed to sit for either exam.Defendant argues that terminating sanctions are appropriate because Plaintiff has failed to respond to valid discovery requests and has violated this Court’s order from May 26, 2023. Terminating sanctions are appropriate because “Plaintiff has flagrantly disregarded the Court’s Orders.” (Motion 7: 13-15.) Additionally, Defendant has been prejudiced as the complaint alleges significant injuries. Without medical examinations, Defendant is unable to accurately evaluate Plaintiff’s damages. (Motion 9: 3-6.) The Court finds that terminating sanctions are appropriate. “The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse “after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.” Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App..4th 377, 390.)Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. (Id.) Terminating sanctions are to be used sparingly because of the drastic effect of their application. (Department of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191.) Moreover, “the purpose of discovery sanctions is to ‘protect the interests of the party entitled to[,] but denied[,] discovery,’ not to ‘punish[ ]’ the noncompliant party or to ‘put the prevailing party in a better position than he would have had if he had obtained the discovery sought.’ ” (Siry Inv., L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2020) 45 Cal. App. 5th 1098, 1117, as modified on denial of reh'g (Mar. 23, 2020), aff'd in part, rev'd in part and remanded, 13 Cal. 5th 333, 513 P.3d 166 (2022).) While terminating sanctions are used sparingly, the Court finds that the circumstances now permit them. Plaintiff has failed to respond to medical examination requests for over a year, requiring Defendant to move to compel attendance. This Court previously granted these motions, requiring Plaintiff to sit for the two exams within 20 and 60 days. Yet, Plaintiff has failed to do so in blatant disregard for this Court’s order. The evidence indicates that Defendant has attempted many times to resolve the issue without the Court’s intervention. However, it appears that Plaintiff has abandoned the matter, unwilling to sit for two medical examinations. Without these examinations, Defendant is unable to properly determine the extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.Further, Plaintiff has not opposed this regularly noticed motion. 