 Case Number:  22STCV28929    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  30 LANEKA MOORE vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (LACMTA)Re: Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted; Motion to Compel Discovery (not "Further Discovery"); Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents (not "Further Discovery"); Motion to Compel Responses to Special InterrogatoriesRuling:Defendant's Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted is granted. The Court orders that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted. Defendant's motions to compel responses to Request for Production of Documents and Special Interrogatories are granted. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses, without objection, within 20 days. The Court awards sanctions in the amount of $750 against Plaintiff and in favor of Defendant, payable within 30 days. Moving party to give notice.Rationale: Request for AdmissionsOn September 14, 2022, Defendant served RFAs, Set One, with responses due October 18, 2022. Plaintiff requested a late extension, with responses due now on November 15, 2022. Plaintiff did not provide any responses. In February 2023, Defendant contacted Plaintiff’s counsel, informing them that the responses were outstanding. However, Defendant has yet to receive a response to the letter or the RFAs. The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to provide responses in a timely manner. With regard to request for admissions, sanctions are mandatory. Defendant requests $1,000 in monetary sanctions. This is based on an hourly rate of $250 with two hours of work preparing the motion and anticipatory 2 hours reviewing the opposition and attending the hearing. As there has been no opposition, the court reduces sanctions to $750.Request for Production of Documents and Special InterrogatoriesDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to the Requests for Production of Documents and the Special Interrogatories.On September 14, 2022, Defendant served discovery including the RPD, Set One and the Special Interrogatories, Set One, with responses due October 18, 2022. Plaintiff requested a late extension, with responses due now on November 15, 2022. Plaintiff did not provide any responses. In February 2023, Defendant contacted Plaintiff’s counsel, informing them that the responses were outstanding. However, Defendant has yet to receive a response to the letter or the discovery requests.  A party waives objections to a discovery request when it does not serve a timely response. CCP section 2030.290(a). The Court declines to impose sanctions as these motions are unopposed.