  Case Number:  21STCV16267    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  M LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                  Wednesday, March 27, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 13
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
John Doe v. Doe 1, et al.  
21STCV16267
1.     
Big Brothers Big
Sisters of America’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, for
Summary Adjudication 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
            Big
Brothers Big Sisters of America’s (“BBBSA”) Motion for Summary Judgment is
granted.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed his Complaint on April 29, 2021. Plaintiff’s operative Second
Amended Complaint was filed on May 9, 2022. Plaintiff alleges the following
facts. Plaintiff alleges that he was sexually abused by Daniel Donohue, a
mentor that he met through a youth mentor program run by Defendants BBBSA and
Big Brother Big Sisters of Los Angeles (“BBBSLA”). Plaintiff’s
FAC alleged the following causes of action: 1. Sexual Battery;
2. Gender Violence; 3. Sexual Harassment (Civil Code § 51.9); 4. Unfair Business
Practices (Business and Professions Code § 17200); 5. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; 6. Assault; 7. Constructive Fraud (Civil Code § 1573); 8. Negligence;
9. Negligent Supervision; 10. Negligent Hiring/Retention; 11. Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.
 
Plaintiff’s
SAC alleges the following causes of action: 1. Sexual Battery; 2. Gender
Violence (Civ. Code 52.4); 3. IIED; 4. Assault; 5. Constructive Fraud (Civ.
Code 1573); 6. Negligence; 7. Negligent Supervision; 8. Negligent
Hiring/Retention; 9. Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 10. Negligent Supervision of
BBBSLA; 11. Negligent Undertaking; 12. Negligent Misrepresentation. The
demurrer of BBSA was overruled as to the sixth through eighth causes of action
and sustained without leave to amend as to the tenth through twelfth causes of
action.
 
Objections
 
Plaintiff’s
Objections:
Declaration of
Julie Novak – Objections 1 to 12 are overruled.
 
Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Adjudication

The purpose of
a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts
with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine
whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their
dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion
for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff
or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no
defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause
of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding
whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence
set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an
objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that
evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment as to the SAC on the grounds that there is no
triable issue of material fact, and that Defendant is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. Alternatively, Defendant moves for summary adjudication of each
of the three causes of action asserted against it – the sixth through eighth
causes of action. 
 
“The
determination whether a duty exists is an issue of law.”  Chee v.
Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1369. Defendant
has met its burden to show that no duty exists as a matter of law. Plaintiff
has failed to meet his burden to show the existence of a triable issue exists
as to the issue of Defendant’s duty. CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
The controlling authority of Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204 governs the issues presented by this
motion. In Brown v. Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204,
participants in a taekwondo program training for the Olympics sued Defendants
Taekwondo Association (USAT), the local organization, and U.S. Olympic
Committee (USOC), a national organization, based on sexual misconduct of an
agent. The trial court sustained USOC’s demurrer without leave to amend. The
California Supreme Court affirmed the decision of the Court of Appeal. The
Supreme Court held that Plaintiffs had sufficiently alleged the existence of a
special relationship between Plaintiffs and USAT but failed to allege such
facts of a special relationship with USOC.  Notably, the Court stated that, as to USOC,
Plaintiffs’ case “rested largely on allegations that USOC had the ability to
regulate USAT's conduct.”  Brown v.
USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 211.
 
The following passage is instructive. “The
issue before us concerns how courts should decide whether a defendant has a
legal duty to take action to protect the plaintiff from injuries caused by a
third party.  . . . “[W]e now clarify
that whether to recognize a duty to protect is governed by a two-step inquiry.
First, the court must determine whether there exists a special relationship
between the parties or some other set of circumstances giving rise to an
affirmative duty to protect. Second, if so, the court must consult the factors
described in Rowland to determine whether relevant policy
considerations counsel limiting that duty.” Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021)
11 Cal.5th 204, 209.
 
Defendant has met its burden to provide evidence
to establish that Defendant lacked the ability to control the daily activities
of perpetrator Donohue. The evidence resembles the factual allegations set
forth in Brown.  Here, the
relationship between BBBSA and co-Defendant BBBSLA is similar to the
relationship between USOC and USAT in Brown. Both USOC and BBBSA had the
authority to suspend or disaffiliate an affiliate. However, both USAT and
BBBSLA had autonomy in the administration of their own respective programs
despite the existence of an affiliate agreement.  Both USOC and BBBSA had requirements regarding
standards as to its affiliates, but the affiliates ultimately had the authority
and control to remove any participants in the respective programs. 
 
Plaintiff’s evidence in opposition fails to
establish the existence of a triable issue of fact as to the existence of a
special relationship between moving party and Plaintiff to impose a duty of
care upon BBBSA.  No evidence was
submitted that BBBSA had any authority or involvement in the selection process
of Donohue or in monitoring Donohue’s participation in the program. 
 
Moving Defendant submitted evidence to show
that it had no involvement in selecting the participants in co-Defendant BBBSLA’s
program.  Instead, the evidence presented
by both parties simply shows that BBBSA set forth guidelines as to the minimum
standards of how the local affiliate agencies would operate.  More specifically, while BBBSA provided
guidelines to affiliate agencies with respect to minimum standards of
operations, there is no evidence that BBBSA controlled the affiliates or
dictated the selection and retention processes.  Plaintiff’s opposition presents and reiterates
these guidelines and minimum standards some of which allegedly dealt with a
national policy regarding sexual abuse. However, again, there is no evidence
that moving Defendant had the ability to control the day-to-day operations of
BBBSLA, let alone the specific perpetrator Donohue.
 
The evidence that was presented is nearly
indistinguishable from the factual allegations that were stated against the
USOC in Brown.  There is no
competent evidence to show that moving Defendant had the ability to control the
alleged perpetrator Donohue, but instead that Defendant had, broadly, policies
in place to regulate and guide the affiliates such as co-Defendant BBBSLA. 
 
Thus, as there is no competent evidence to
show that the parties entered a special relationship, the Court need not
proceed with the second prong of the Brown analysis which essentially
involved an analysis of the factors of finding a duty of care under Rowland
v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113. Instead, the evidence establishes
that no duty of care existed on the part of BBBSA as to Plaintiff.
Thus,
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.