  Case Number:  23CHCV03607    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  F51 
May 20, 2024
 

DEMURRER w/o MTS

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV03607

 
Motion filed: 03/08/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants LA Solar Group, Inc. (“LA
Solar”) and Smart Main Panel Inc. dba LA/YX Solar Group (“TX Solar”) (collectively
“Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff SolarSesame Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants demur to the First
Amended Complaint’s (“FAC”) third and fourth causes of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing against LA Solar and TX Solar, pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e). 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
02/09/24, Plaintiff filed the operative FAC against Defendants asserting (1)
breach of contract (against LA Solar); (2) breach of contract (against TX
Solar); (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against
LA Solar); and (4) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing (against TX Solar). 
 
            On
03/08/24, Defendants filed the instant demurrer to the FAC. On 05/08/24,
Plaintiff filed its opposition brief. On 05/16/24, Defendants filed their reply
brief. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants demur to the FAC’s third
and fourth causes of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing against LA Solar and TX Solar, pursuant to California Code of
Civil Procedure § 430.10(e). 
 
1.      Meet and Confer 
 
The Court finds the preliminary meet and confer requirements
of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a) have been
satisfied.  
 
2.     
Third Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing (Against LA Solar) and Fourth
Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing (Against TX Solar)
 
Plaintiff’s
third and fourth cause of action alleges against Defendants a breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Every contract contains an
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing that neither party will do
anything to interfere with the other party’s right to receive the benefits of
the agreement. (Howard v. American Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The precise nature and extent of the duty depends on the
nature and purpose of the underlying contract and the parties’ legitimate
expectations arising from the contract. (Ibid.) “A breach of the implied
covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract … and breach of a specific
provision of the contract is not … necessary to a claim for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v.
The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.) 
 
However,
“if the allegations [of breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing] do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying
on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already
claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as
superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated.” (Careau & Co. v.
Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.)
 
Here, the FAC alleges, among other things,
that defendant LA Solar prevented Plaintiff from receiving additional benefits under
the Agreement.  by:
 
(1)   “no-showing
regular reporting meetings with Plaintiff”;
(2)  
“failing to provide Plaintiff ‘with other
support services reasonably appropriate under this Agreement and/or customary
in the solar industry’”;
(3)  
“refusing to convert customer projects that had
been submitted prior to the (premature) termination date of October 1, 2023,
despite stating in writing that such projects would remain in development”; 
(4)  
“singling out Plaintiff amongst Defendant LA
Solar’s dealers for disparate treatment, revoking Plaintiff’s access to certain
of Defendant La Solar’s systems;” and 
(5)   “causing
its automated text messaging services (so-called “auto-bots”) to message
customers that had pending solar projects under contracts executed by Plaintiff
(as sales representative for LA Solar). On information and belief, these were
attempts to sell such customers solar services directly and cut Plaintiff out
of the transaction.” (FAC ¶¶ 52-56.) 
 
Further, the FAC alleges that defendant TX
Solar denied Plaintiff the same additional 
benefits
under the Agreement. (FAC ¶¶ 64-68.)  
 
Upon review
of the FAC, the Court finds that the underlying factual allegations relied upon
in Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action are identical those alleged in
his second cause of action for Breach of Contract. Accordingly, the Court
sustains the demurrer.
 
3.     
Leave to Amend
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave
to amend, the Court grants Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend his FAC to cure the
defects set forth above. Plaintiff is cautioned that “following an order
sustaining a demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her
complaint only as authorized by the court's order. … The plaintiff may not
amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained
permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the
order granting leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
431, 456.)
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiff’s third and fourth
causes of action with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
 