Here is a summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23BBCV02244
Hearing Date: April 19, 2024
Department: NCB
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B

Case: EMBEDDED PIXEL, LLC, et al. v. DI'IMAGE DIGITAL IMAGE CORPORATION, et al.

Tentative Ruling:

Case Summary:
Plaintiffs Embedded Pixel, LLC and Hidden Pixels, LLC allege that the Cavalieres, the sole members of EPL, asked Jeff Pierce to develop a solution to stream video identification problems. They claim that Pierce mentioned working for Di'Image as an independent contractor and that Di'Image had related video encoding technology. Plaintiffs allege that the Naulins, who are spouses, dominated and controlled Di'Image. They claim that Di'Image failed to contribute to HPL's operating costs and technology development and instead used EPL's funds for their own benefit.

Demurrer Rulings:

1. 1st cause of action for accounting against all Defendants: Sustained in part for EPL, but overruled for HPL.
2. 2nd cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and alter ego allegations against all Defendants: Sustained with leave to amend.
3. 3rd cause of action for declaratory relief against Di'Image: Overruled.
4. 4th cause of action for breach of contract by EPL against Di'Image: Overruled.
5. 8th cause of action for receipt of stolen property (Penal Code, ยง 496(c)) against all Defendants: Sustained with leave to amend.
9. 9th cause of action for unfair business practices against John Naulin and Di'Image: Overruled.

Pleadings and Findings:

* The Court accepts the allegations of the FAC as true, including the terms of the Joint Venture Agreement.
* The demurer to the 1st cause of action is sustained in part for EPL, but overruled for HPL.
* The demurrer to the 2nd cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
* The demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is overruled.
* The demurrer to the 4th cause of action is overruled.
* The demurrer to the 8th cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
* The demurrer to the 9th cause of action is overruled.
```

Please note that this is a summary of the tentative ruling and may not reflect the final judgment or ruling.