 Case Number:  23BBCV01804    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  RAMON ENRIQUE MARQUEZ MENDEZ,                        Plaintiff,            v.WALGREEN CO., et al.,                         Defendants.   Case No.:  23BBCV01804   Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT   BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Ramon Enriquez Marquez Mendez (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on February 2, 2022, he was shopping inside Defendants Walgreen Co., Walgreen National Corporation, Walgreen Boot Alliance, Inc., and Walgreens Store #9491’s business at a Walgreens store in North Hollywood.  He alleges that there were multiple stacked plastic crates filled with merchandise that fell and struck Plaintiff, injuring his eye and causing orthopedic injuries.  Plaintiff alleges that the Walgreens store’s premises was managed by Defendant Stephanie Martinez. The complaint, filed August 7, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2) premises liability.   On August 30, 2023, the dismissal without prejudice of the complaint filed against Defendants Walgreen National Corporation and Walgreen Boot Alliance Inc., only was entered. B.    Motions on CalendarThere are two motions for summary judgment on calendar.On January 24, 2024, Defendant Walgreen Co. filed a motion for summary judgment on the ground that there are no triable issues of material fact.  On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.  On April 12, 2024, Walgreen filed a reply brief.On January 31, 2024, Defendant Stephanie Martinez filed a motion for summary judgment on the ground that there are no triable issues of material fact.  On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.  On April 12, 2024, Martinez filed a reply brief.DISCUSSION RE WALGREEN’S MSJA.   Evidentiary ObjectionsWith the opposition brief, Plaintiff submitted evidentiary objections.  To the extent that Plaintiff is objecting the Walgreen’s separate statement facts, the objections to Walgreen’s Facts 7-10, 13, 17, 21, 23-24, 30, and 32 are overruled as the proper way to address Walgreen’s material facts is to dispute them.  The objections to the declaration of Jon Groussman (consultant) are overruled as to paragraphs 5-8, 12, and 17.  The objections to the declaration of Carl Beels (consultant) are overruled as to paragraphs 15, 20-22, and 24. With the reply brief, Walgreen submitted evidentiary objections.  The objections to Exhibits 7 and 16 are overruled.  The objection to Exhibit 10 (transcription from the vest cam of LAPD Officer Joshua Walters) is sustained as it is unclear how the transcription was made and whether it is accurate.  The objections to Exhibits 11 (Plaintiff’s medical records and photographs of injuries) and 15 (Plaintiff’s preservation of evidence letter) are overruled.  The objection to the declaration of John Peterson (expert) is overruled at paragraphs 11-19 and 21-26. B.    Merits of Motion            Walgreen moves for summary judgment, arguing that it exercised reasonable care in the use and operation of the store and that it is not responsible for criminal conduct of any third parties that may have assaulted Plaintiff, as there had been no prior attacks at the store and Walgreens had no duty to post security guards.  It argues that it acted as a reasonable retailer by having a CCTV video system in place with selective coverage of the store.  It also argues that its employees were reasonable in the use of stocking carts and there were no conditions in the store that created an unreasonable risk of harm or were a substantial factor in causing any injury to the Plaintiff.            In support of the motion, Walgreen provides the following undisputed material facts.  On February 2, 2022, Plaintiff suffered an injury at the premises of the Walgreen store located at 10955 Magnolia Blvd. in North Hollywood.  (Walgreen Fact 1.)  Plaintiff was at the store with his wife Rosemarie Marquez.  (Id. at 2.)  The incident happened at the back aisle of the store.  (Id. at 3.)  Plaintiff was standing in front of a flat-bed cart stacked with plastic boxes of products and looking at products on the shelf in front of him.  (Id. at 4.)  Walgreen employees use these types of carts to bring products out from the stock room to the sales floor.  (Id. at 5.)  A tall, black man passed behind Plaintiff and almost immediately thereafter Plaintiff was struck from behind.  (Id. at 6.)  Plaintiff fell forward and suffered an injury.  (Id. at 7.)  Plaintiff does not know how many individual boxes or how many rows were stacked on the cart before he was struck.  (Id. at 11-12.)  Mrs. Marquez did not see Plaintiff fall, but she found him on the floor after he fell and 3-4 plastic boxes on top of Plaintiff.  (Id. at 14-16.)  Mrs. Marquez does not know how many rows of boxes were stacked on the cart before Plaintiff fell and does not have personal knowledge of what caused the boxes to fall.  (Id. at 18-19.)  There was no security guard posted at the store on the date of the incident.  (Id. at 22.)  The store is equipped with cameras, but on the day of the incident, there was no video coverage of the area where Plaintiff fell. (Id. at 23-24.)  Plaintiff contends Walgreen was negligent in failing to post a security guard; failing to have a fully functioning security camera system; and for allowing a cart with boxes stacked on top to remain in the aisle.  (Id. at 25-27.) Walgreen argues that it, as a business owner, did not have a duty to protect Plaintiff from an assault (or criminal act) by a third-party customer that it did not reasonably anticipate.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has no problem with the Court granting summary judgment on this issue because the only claim Plaintiff is bringing is for premises liability—specifically that Walgreen’s negligence created a dangerous condition in the form of an unattended U-Boat stacked with totes. (Opp. at pp.8, 13.)  As such, the Court will focus its analysis on this claim of liability only.            Walgreen argues that there is no evidence that the plastic boxes on the cart were unstable or improperly stacked on rolling metal carts in the aisles without warning of their potential to tip and fall.  Walgreen cites to Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, arguing that Plaintiff does not believe that the boxes fell by accident or because they were improperly stacked.  (Walgreen Fact 10.)  In his deposition, Plaintiff testified that he saw a black man pass behind him and look at shelves, but did not know what happened and that he then fell below the boxes.  (Pl.’s Depo. at p.68.)  Plaintiff testified that he did not know how the boxes came to hit him, did not know if they fell on their own, assumes that someone had to have pushed them as they could not fall alone but does not know if the man behind him pushed the cart/boxes, and he himself did not touch the cart prior to the incident.  (Id. at p.89-90, 102.)  Plaintiff later testified that he assumes the boxes did not fall on their own and that it was the person who was there seconds before, but he does not know if it was intentional or due to mental illness.  (Id. at pp.129, 134.)  Plaintiff stated that he did not know of anything to suggest that the boxes may have been unstable or dangerous.  (Id. at p.226.)             Walgreen also argues that the cart stacked with boxes did not present an unreasonable risk of harm.  (Walgreen Fact 30.)  Angel Espinoza (shift lead employed at the subject store) states that he did not see how the injury occurred.  (Mot., Ex. I [Espinoza Decl., ¶4].)  Espinoza states that flat-bed carts (U-boats) are used to bring out products packaged in plastic boxes from the stock room to the floor and that the boxes are stacked on top of each other.  (Id., ¶¶10-13.)  He states that the cart was placed against the shelf and provides a sample photo of how carts are usually stacked and placed.  (Id., ¶15.)  He states that he saw the cart on the floor before and after the incident, did not see any indication that it created any risk of the totes falling, and that the totes appeared stable and well-balanced on the cart.  (Id., ¶¶17-18.)  Walgreen also provides the declaration of Carl Beels (consultant) who states that based on his experience, education, and training and his examination of photos (but not of the subject cart or incident) and the witness’s description of the flat-bed cart stacked with plastic boxes did not create an unreasonable risk of harm and this was based on the witness statements that there was nothing to suggest that the cart had been overloaded or was unstable.  (Mot., Ex. L [Beels Decl., ¶¶21-22].)             As there were no security cameras in the area where the incident occurred, Walgreen has not provided any photographs of what the subject U-Boat looked like prior to or after the incident.  Plaintiff may have provided his opinions on how the U-Boat looked on the day of the subject incident, but he is not an expert on how inventory boxes should be stacked on U-Boats at the store.  Further, Espinoza states that he saw the U-Boat before and after the incident and that the totes appeared stable and well-balanced, but this statement lacks any further details, such as how many boxes were stacked, how far away the cart was from the shelves in the aisle, etc.  Further, Mr. Beels’ declaration is based solely on witness statements, and he does not have a photograph of what the U-Boat looked like prior to the incident and therefore cannot evaluate whether the subject U-Boat prior to or during the incident did or did not create an unreasonable risk of harm.  It appears that Walgreen is relying on an absence of evidence regarding the unsafe condition of the U-Boat in bringing this motion; however, the evidence is mostly speculative as there is equally no evidence to show that the U-Boat was in a safe condition.             Plaintiff argues in opposition that Walgreen leaving the U-Boat unattended in an aisle during business hours was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.  Plaintiff’s expert, John R. Peterson, states that Walgreen has not discussed its policies and procedures regarding the standard of care and that Walgreen relies on omissions and the absence of information to render expert conclusions.  (Opp., Ex. 17 [Peterson Decl., ¶12].)  Mr. Peterson states that the practice of leaving U-Boats in aisles of stores while stacked with totes of merchandise completely unattended is a longstanding danger to all patrons of the store.  (Id., ¶15.)  Mr. Peterson states that Walgreens had policies not to block aisles or exits and take down tall loads that may fall if moved, which he states are consistent with industry standards; he states, however, that Walgreen’s employees did not follow these few practices as they left U-Boats stacked with boxes out in the aisles unattended.  (Id., ¶¶19-22.)  Mr. Peterson’s declaration and opinions raise triable issues of material fact regarding whether leaving an unattended U-Boat stacked with boxes in the aisle that Plaintiff was browsing created a dangerous condition. Further, to the extent that Walgreen argues that the incident occurred as a result of a third-party criminal act, Walgreen relies on the fact that there were no prior incidents of assault or battery at the store.  However, “‘'[t]he mere fact that a particular kind of an accident has not happened before does not ... show that such accident is one which might not reasonably have been anticipated.' [Citation.] Thus, the fortuitous absence of prior injury does not justify relieving defendant from responsibility for the foreseeable consequences of its acts.’”  (Isaacs v. Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 126, citing Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 47.)  Further, Plaintiff provides the Los Angeles Police Department’s Detective’s Case Progress Log completed by detective Irma Salazar.  The report states that Officer Navarro contacted Stephanie Martinez on April 15, 2022 and January 19, 2023, and Stephanie Martinez stated that the suspect often frequented the store as a customer and was known to be a theft suspect.  (Opp., Ex. 5 [Detective’s Case Progress Log at pp.1-3].)  On March 14, 2023, Officer Navarro states that he spoke with Stephanie Martinez who advised that “the suspect from recent unreported sexual batteries in the store may be the same suspect from the this [sic] assault being investigated.”  (Id. at p.4.) This may raise a triable issue of material fact regarding whether Walgreen and its employees knew of prior battery incidents at the store involving the same suspect. The Court finds that Walgreen has not upheld its initial burden in summary judgment.  Even if it had, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently raised triable issues of material fact that would preclude summary judgment.  Accordingly, the motion is denied. DISCUSSION RE MARTINEZ’S MSJA.   Evidentiary ObjectionsThe evidentiary objections submitted by Plaintiff with the opposition brief and Stephanie Martinez with the reply brief are identical to the ones submitted by Plaintiff and Walgreen in Walgreen’s motion for summary judgment.  The same rulings on the evidentiary objections apply here. B.    Merits of Motion            Martinez moves for summary judgment, arguing that she was not on the premises on the day of the subject incident, such that she had no prior notice that there an attack/assault by a third-party customer was likely to occur and she is not responsible for the criminal conduct of third parties.  She also argues that Walgreen’s employees were reasonable in the use of stocking carts and that no conditions in the store created an unreasonable risk of harm or were a substantial factor in causing any injury to Plaintiff.  Additionally, she argues that even if such a condition existed in the store on the day of the incident, Martine had no prior notice of the condition as she was not present the day of the incident. Martinez argues that she did not have a duty to protect Plaintiff from an assault (or criminal act) by a third-party customer that it did not reasonably anticipate.  In opposition, Plaintiff again argues that he has no problem with the Court granting summary judgment on this issue because the only claim Plaintiff is bringing is for premises liability—specifically that Walgreen’s negligence created a dangerous condition in the form of an unattended U-Boat stacked with totes. (Opp. at pp.8, 13.)  As such, the Court will focus its analysis on this claim of liability only.The separate statement submitted on behalf of Martinez is essentially the same as the one submitted on behalf of Walgreen in these two motions for summary judgment.  (Walgreen and Martinez are represented by the same attorney.)  For the same reasons discussed above, the Court finds that Martinez has not upheld its initial burden in showing that a dangerous condition did not exist at the time of the subject incident.Moreover, in opposition, Plaintiff provides Walgreen’s policy that states that when one is done using a hand truck, it should be stored so it does not block any aisles and cannot roll or tip over.  (Pl.’s Additional Material Fact [AMF] 26.)  Plaintiff provides Martinez’s deposition transcript wherein she states that she was not aware of any policy regarding the number of totes that can be stacked on a U-Boat, and she did not know if there was a procedure to ensure that stacked boxes were secure or stable.  (Pl.’s AMF 32; Opp., Ex. 1 [Martinez Depo. at pp.183, 224-225].)   Espinoza also testified that he was not aware of any training on how to stack boxes or safety training on the matter.  (Pl.’s AMF 33; Opp., Ex. 2 [Espinoza Depo. at pp.71-72].)  He also testified that the U-Boat was in the same spot as in an example photo as that was where the U-Boat “always” was and where it stays when loading.  (Id. at pp.42-43.)  Mr. Peterson (Plaintiff’s expert) also opines that industry practice and Walgreen’s policies require that there be no blockage aisles/exits and that tall loads should be taken down, but Walgreen’s employees did not comply with these practices as they left the U-Boat with stacked boxes unattended in the aisle where Plaintiff was shopping.  Thus, Plaintiff has shown that there is at least a triable issue of material fact regarding whether Martinez knew about Walgreen’s policies and procedures about blocking aisles and whether she enforced them, as it appears from Espinoza’s testimony that no such training was provided and U-Boats were always in the back aisles where Plaintiff’s injury occurred. The Court finds that Martinez has not upheld her initial burden in summary judgment.  Even if it had, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently raised triable issues of material fact that would preclude summary judgment.  Accordingly, the motion is denied. CONCLUSION AND ORDER Defendant Walgreen Co.’s motion for summary judgment is denied. Defendant Stephanie Martinez’s motion for summary judgment is denied. 