 Case Number:  22BBCV01283    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  YAMILE COLQUE, et al.,                        Plaintiffs,            v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY,                         Defendants.   Case No.:  22BBCV01283   Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTIONS TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFFS  There are two motions on calendar.  On March 22, 2024, Defendant Ford Motor Company filed motions to compel the depositions of Plaintiff Yamile Colque and Wilson Colque. Prior to ruling on this motion, the Court makes the following disclosure.  John Kralik was an associate of the Law Firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed from 1979-1987 and a partner in Hughes Hubbard & Reed from 1988-1993. During that time he worked on Ford Motor Company matters, principally on products liability cases from 1976 (when he was a summer associate) until 1987. Ford was a major client during his partnership with the firm, and so some portion of his partner draw would have originated with Ford. The Court does not feel that it is biased in this matter as the result of this long ago legal representation but recognizes that the parties may have a different perception. If any party feels that the Court’s prior work at Hughes Hubbard creates an appearance of bias, please file an appropriate request for the Court to recuse prior to the next hearing in this matter. It is not necessary to file a peremptory challenge under CCP 170.6.The parties are ordered to attend the hearing.  Prior to the hearing, counsel should discuss with their clients whether they would like this case to proceed in this Department.  If the parties have objections, they should be raised at the hearing so that the Court may take appropriate steps to recuse itself from the action and transfer the case.  If the parties need additional time to speak with their clients, counsel should inform the Court at the hearing.If the parties are willing to waive these issues, then the Court will continue the hearing on the motion to compel the depositions to April 26, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  No further briefing will be permitted on the motions.