 Case Number:  23BBCV01970    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  MONIQUE CARMELETE ALMEIDA,                        Plaintiff,            v. JEFFREY PAUL KATZ,                        Defendant.   Case No.:  23BBCV01970   Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:MOTIONS TO QUASH SUBPOENAS  BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Monique Carmelete Almeida (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on May 28, 2022, she was involved in a motor vehicle accident with Defendant Jeffrey Paul Katz (“Defendant”) at Tujunga Ave. and Erwin St. in Los Angeles.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to make a stop at a posted stop sign, which caused his vehicle to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle, resulting in Plaintiff sustaining bodily injuries.  The complaint, filed August 24, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; and (2) general negligence. B.    Motion on CalendarOn March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash subpoenas for production of business records dated February 16, 2024, served on Adventist Health White Memorial Montebello, Adventist Health White Memorial Montebello (Billing), Adventist Health White Memorial Montebello (X-Rays), Focus Medical Imaging, Parehjan & Vartzar Chiropractic, Inc., and Full Range Spine & Orthopedics. The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves to quash the subpoenas for production of business records served on various medical providers. The subpoenas seek any and all documents and medical records, including but not limited to office, emergency room, inpatient, outpatient, hospital charts/records, pharmacy records, progress notes, patient information sheets, accident questionnaires, registration paperwork, sign-in sheets, radiology reports and pathology reports; any and all radiology materials and films, etc.; and any and all itemized statements of the billing charges, all insurance records, explanation of benefits, billing off-sets, and records of payments, etc. pertaining to the care, treatment, and examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas violate her right to privacy in her medical, pharmaceutical, psychological, psychiatric, and/or psychotherapy records, violate the physician-patient privilege, and violate her right of privacy in her financial information.  Plaintiff requests that the motions be denied or that the subpoenas be limited to the relevant body parts at issue in this action.  The relevant body parts as listed in Form Interrogatory No. 6.2 include Plaintiff’s neck, shoulders, left wrist, lower back, right knee, and right ankle. While a plaintiff is not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific physical, mental, or emotional injury, “they may not withhold information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this lawsuit.”  (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864; City & County of San Francisco v. Superior Court (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 232.)  A plaintiff suing for personal injuries waives the physician-patient privilege to some extent, but this does not make discoverable all of a plaintiff’s lifetime medical history.  (Britt, supra, 20 Cal.3d at 863-64.)    In this motor vehicle accident lawsuit, Plaintiff claims various injuries as described above.  However, the entirety of Plaintiff’s medical history and billing information are not necessarily at issue and thus the subpoenas are overly broad in time and in scope.  As such, the subpoenas will be modified and restricted in scope and time such as to seek those medical records and billing information described in the subpoenas relevant to injuries or issues with Plaintiff’s neck, shoulders, left wrist, lower back, right knee, and right ankle, for the period of May 28, 2017 (5 years prior to the accident) to the present. CONCLUSION AND ORDERPlaintiff Monique Carmelete Almeida’s motion to quash the deposition subpoenas is granted in part such that the subpoenas will be modified and restrict in scope and time such as to seek those medical records and billing information described in the subpoenas relevant to injuries or issues with Plaintiff’s neck, shoulders, left wrist, lower back, right knee, and right ankle, for the period of May 28, 2017 (5 years prior to the accident) to the present.         