 Case Number:  23BBCV00658    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  NCB  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesNorth Central DistrictDepartment B  ELIAS REIDY,                            Plaintiff,            v. EAU DI NIL MARKETING & EVENTS, INC., et al.,                             Defendants.   Case No.: 23BBCV00658   Hearing Date:  April 19, 2024  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:DEMURRER BACKGROUNDA.   AllegationsPlaintiff Elias Reidy (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was an employee of Defendant Eau Di Nil Marketing & Events Inc. (“EDN”), a subsidiary of Defendant Crop King Seeds (“CKS”), and Defendant Landra Deloach (“Deloach”).  Plaintiff alleges that on March 25, 2021 at approximately 10:30 a.m., he was placing cannabis seeds in jars at the EDN factory and, while leaning over his work station, cupping a jar and seeds in both hands, he suddenly felt someone hit him on the right side of the face with great force.  Plaintiff alleges that he was struck with such force that he fell into the left and right side of a cage area before stumbling into the garage area.  Plaintiff alleges that when he looked up, he saw his coworker Defendant Isaiah Vega (“Vega”) standing right behind him, preparing for another attack.  Plaintiff alleges that Vega was wearing large, sharp, metallic rings that caused damage to Plaintiff’s face.  Plaintiff alleges that Vega shouted numerous homophobic, racist, and sexual epithets at him.  He alleges that he pleaded for help, but manager/owner Deloach failed to offer any help or medical assistance.             The complaint, filed March 22, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence against all Defendants; (2) premises liability against CKS, EDN, and Deloach; (3) assault and battery against CKS, EDN, and Vega; (4) statutory negligence against all Defendants; (5) vicarious liability against CKS, EDN, and Deloach; (6) negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employee against CKS, EDN, and Deloach; (7) negligence per se against all Defendants; (8) wrongful termination in violation of public policy against CKS, EDN, and Deloach; (9) IIED against all Defendants; and (10) NIED against all Defendants. B.    Relevant Background and Demurrer on CalendarOn October 27, 2023, EDN and Deloach filed a demurrer and motion to strike document to the complaint.  On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.   On January 3, 2024, EDN and Deloach filed a reply brief.  That matter came for hearing on January 12, 2024 where the Court sustained with 20 days leave to amend the demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, 5th, 6th, 7th, 9th, and 10th causes of action; sustained without leave to amend the demurrer to the 3rd and 4th causes of action; and overruled the demurrer as to the 8th cause of action.  The Court granted the motion to strike the punitive damages allegations with 20 days leave to amend. On March 5, 2024, EDN and Deloach filed a demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 5th causes of action in the FAC.  On April 9, 2024, EDN and Deloach filed a notice of non-opposition to the demurrer, stating that they did not receive an opposition by April 8, 2024.  The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.  On April 11, 2024, EDN and Deloach filed a reply brief, stating that they received an untimely opposition brief and are replying to the arguments therein.DISCUSSIONEDN and Deloach demur to the 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 5th causes of action alleged in the FAC.    EDN and Deloach argue that the FAC was filed on January 31, 2024.The Court has reviewed the documents filed in this case.  No FAC has been filed with the Court.  There is no filing made on January 30, 2024 by either party.  With the declaration in support of the demurrer, defense counsel Bradley C. Crosley provides a copy of what he states is Plaintiff’s FAC.  (Crosley Decl., ¶7, Ex. D.)  However, Exhibit D includes a document entitled “Declaration of Elias Reidy” with a caption containing 6 causes of action.  This document was not filed with the Court. As no FAC has been filed with the Court, EDN and Deloach’s demurrer to the FAC is taken off-calendar as moot.  The initial complaint, filed on March 22, 2023, is the operative pleading in this action. The Court also notes that although EDN and Deloach state they were belatedly served with an opposition brief, no opposition brief was filed with the Court.  It appears that while Plaintiff is serving EDN and Deloach with documents, Plaintiff is not concurrently filing the documents with the Court. CONCLUSION AND ORDER            Defendants Eau Di Nil Marketing & Events Inc. and Landra Deloach’s demurrer to the first amended complaint is taken off-calendar.  The operative pleading in this action is the initial complaint.  No first amended complaint was filed by Plaintiff.          