 Case Number:  23STCV25626    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MURAL MEDIA, LLC 401 K PLAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
LINDA J. MAULTSBY, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV25626   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 1, 2024




 
            Defendant’s motion for transfer
is DENIED. 
 
            On 10/20/2023, Plaintiff Mural
Media, LLC 401 K. Plan (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer action against
Linda J. Maultsby (Defendant).
 
            Now, Defendant moves for an order to
transfer.  
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant, who is pro per, seeks an
order to transfer this action to another court.
 
“The court may, on motion,
change the place of trial in the following cases: … (c) When the convenience of
witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.” (CCP § 397,
subd. (c).) However, “[i]t is well settled that a motion for change of venue
grounded upon the convenience of witnesses rests largely in the discretion of
the trial court….” (Wrin v. Ohlandt (1931) 213 Cal. 158, 159.) When it
comes to a change of venue motion under CCP § 397, subdivision (c), “the burden
[of proof] rests on the party moving for transfer to establish grounds for
change of venue, on the theory the plaintiff lays the venue and it is
presumptively correct.” (Pesses v. Superior Court (1980) 107 Cal.App.3d
117, 124.)
 
            After review, the Court denies the
requested relief.
 
This is an unlawful detainer action and concerns real
property located in Los Angeles County. As such, the case must be heard in Los
Angeles County. (CCP § 392.)
 
            Moreover, Defendant has not identified
any specific court that would be more convenient. Defendant’s request is based
on her desire to call three witnesses, two of whom are located in Northern
California, and one of whom who is located in Southern California. As such, it
is not clear what location would be a more convenient court for these three
witnesses, given that one is already located in Southern California. Defendant
also has not shown that the interests of justice would be served by relocating
this action to provide a more convenient location for three witnesses that
Defendant intends to call for testimony. 
 
            In sum, not only must the case be
heard in Los Angeles County, but Defendant has not shown that the interests of
judicial economy would be served by transfer.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion to transfer is denied.   
 
             
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 