  Case Number:  19STCV34609    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ESTATE OF TOK HUI TILL, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
LOS ANGELES CENTERS FOR ALCOHOL AND
  DRUG ABUSE, INC.
 
 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV34609
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 1, 2023



 
Defendant
Connie Chung’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
On 9/27/2020,
Plaintiffs Estate of Tok Hui Till, Sunja Ja Lam, and Jonathan Till
(collectively, Plaintiffs) initiated this action. 
 
On 4/28/2020,
Cross-Complainant Los Angeles Centers for Alcohol and Drug Abuse, Inc. (LA CADA)
filed a cross-complaint against Katherine Sang Eun Koo and Susan Ho
(collectively, Cross-Defendants).
 
            Now,
Defendant Connie Chung (Defendant) moves for summary judgment of Plaintiff’s
claims against her. 
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a triable issue of material fact of
liability as to Defendant because she neither owed nor breached any duty and
did not cause or otherwise contribute to the alleged injuries. In particular,
Defendant argues that she had no association with Eden Adult Residential Care,
Inc. (Eden Manor) at the time of the incident, nor is she an employee of LA
CADA. 
 
            In
support, Defendant submitted evidence that: 

 
-        
On or about February 6, 2017, Defendant
was the owner of Eden Manor, an Adult Residential Facility. (SS ¶ 1.) 
 
-        
On February 6, 2017, Ms. Chung entered
into a purchase agreement with LA CADA to purchase and operate Eden Manor. (SS
¶ 2.)
 
-        
Pursuant to a Management Agreement
between LA CADA and Ms. Chung, as of May 7, 2018, Ms. Chung no longer had any
duties, responsibilities or involvement in the ownership, day-to-day
management, or operation of Eden Manor, including any employee oversight, or
authority or obligation to provide care or services to the residents, including
Decedent, nor was Ms. Chung an employee of LA CADA. (SS ¶ 3.) 
 
-        
As of May 7, 2018, LA CADA assumed
exclusive ownership, managerial, administrative, and operational control of
Eden Manor, including all facility oversight, resident care, and all employee
hiring, training, and supervision. (SS ¶ 4.) 
 
-        
As of May 7, 2018, LA CADA was
appointed as Administrator of Eden Manor and was responsible for supervising
and directing the management of the day-to-day operations of Eden Manor in a
professional efficient and expeditious manner and taking all actions it deemed
necessary and appropriate in connection with the management of Eden Manor, in
its sole discretion, so long as such action or decision was consistent with
Title 22 regulations and the admission agreements and other agreements executed
by the residents of Eden Manor and all federal, state and local laws applicable
to the operation and management of the Eden Manor. (SS ¶ 5.) 
 
-        
As of May 7, 2018, LA CADA was
responsible for recruiting, hiring, paying training, supervising and
terminating all professional and non-professional persons who were required for
the operations of Eden Manor. (SS ¶ 7.) 
 
-        
After LA CADA assumed exclusive
ownership, managerial, administrative, and operational control of Eden Manor,
all then employees of Eden Manor were terminated by LA CADA, and certain of
those terminated employees were then hired by LA CADA effective on or about
July 1, 2018. (SS ¶ 8.) 
 
-        
Decedent Tok Hui Till was a resident of
Eden Manor for a number of years while it was owned and operated by Eden Adult
Residential Care, Inc. and remained a resident of Eden Manor when LA CADA
assumed all responsibilities for operating the facility in May 2018. (SS ¶ 9.) 
 
-        
On or around November 27, 2018,
Decedent left Eden Manor and was involved in a motor vehicle accident seven
miles away, which later resulted in her death on December 4, 2018. (SS ¶ 10.) 
 
-        
At the time Decedent left Eden Manor in
November 2018, Ms. Chung had had no involvement with Eden Manor since July 1,
2018. (SS ¶ 11.) 
 
-        
As of July 1, 2018, Ms. Chung had no
responsibility for and played no role in anything that occurred at Eden Manor,
including any of the following:
 
o  
Interviewing or hiring employees to
work at Eden Manor;
o  
Training employees to work at Eden
Manor;
o  
Supervising employees who worked at
Eden Manor;
o  
Developing plans, policies and
procedures for the operation of Eden Manor;
o  
Assuring Eden Manor complied with all
licensing requirements as an Adult Residential Facility;
o  
Evaluating residents to determine their
eligibility to become or remain a resident of Eden Manor or to return to Eden
Manor as residents after a hospitalization;
o  
Directing day-to-day operations of Eden
Manor;
o  
Directing the activities of any
employees of Eden Manor;
o  
Monitoring the activities of any
employees of Eden Manor;
o  
Distributing medications to any
residents, including but not limited to Decedent, consist with orders from
their health care providers;
o  
Controlling the actions and behaviors
of any resident, including but not limited to Decedent;
o  
Disciplining, suspending, or
terminating any employee of LA CADA.
 
(SS
¶ 12.)
 
-        
After selling Eden Manor to LA CADA in
May 2018, at which point LA CADA had assumed exclusive ownership, managerial,
administrative, and operational control of Eden Manor, Ms. Chung never had any
other contact or communication with Decedent. (SS ¶ 13.)
 
Defendant’s
evidence establishes that, at all times relevant to this action: (1) Defendant
was not the head of Eden Manor; (2) LA CADA, not Defendant, had exclusive
ownership, managerial, administrative, and operational control of Eden Manor;
(3) LA CADA, not Ms. Chung, was responsible for supervising, training, and
disciplining employees; and (4) Defendant as not an employee of LA CADA and had
not seen or had any communication with Decedent after May 2018. As such,
Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that she did not owe any
duty to Decedent at the time of the alleged incident. Accordingly, the burden
shifts to Plaintiffs to disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant was the administrator/licensee of
the facility until at least July 2019, that LA CADA never obtained license to
operate the facility, and that the only license filed with the State of
California up until July 2019 belong to Defendant.  
 
However,
Plaintiffs’ evidence fails to disclose a triable issue of triable fact.
 
As to the
first contention, Plaintiffs submitted a note allegedly written by Defendant
stating that she would remain in charge until LA CADA obtained its own license.
However, LA CADA and Defendant entered into an integrated written agreement,
wherein LA CADA agreed to take over full control of the operation of Eden Manor
no later than 7/1/2018. Thus, the note Chung allegedly wrote is barred by the
Parol Evidence rule, which prohibits the introduction of any extrinsic evidence
to alter, vary, or add to the terms of an integrated written agreement. (Civil
Code § 1625, Code of Civil Procedure § 1856(a).) Moreover, and importantly, Plaintiff
did not introduce any evidence which could show beyond this note that Defendant
had any role in running Eden Manor after she ceded control to LA CADA. As noted
in the Motion, when Plaintiff Jonathan Till responded to Chung’s Special
Interrogatories he admitted that he could not identify the persons Chung
allegedly hired who were implicated in the conduct complained of in the
Complaint; could not identify any persons who knew that Chung directed or
monitored the activities of any employees of Eden Manor in November 2018; and
could not identify any documents Plaintiffs’ contention that Chung directed or
monitored the activities of any employees of Eden Manor in November 2018.
(Motion, 15:1-17:4.)
 
 As such, Plaintiffs have not introduced any
admissible evidence to show a triable issue as to whether LA CADA took over the
operation of Eden Manor no later than 7/1/2018 and that Chung no longer played
any role in its administration. 
 
As to the
second contention, Plaintiffs’ Additional Disputed Fact (ADF) No. 23 states:
“Chung remained the administrator of Eden Manor until LA CADA obtained its
license to operate the facility. LA CADA never obtained license to operate the
facility.” The support for this fact comes from two portions from Chung’s
deposition (Ikonte Decl., Exhibit E, Chung Deposition, 17:22-18:6, 21:24-22:1.)
In the first excerpt, she states that if LA CADA obtained a license it would
relieve her of responsibility to operate the facility, and that LA CADA did not
obtain a license. In the second excerpt, she seems to admit that she remained
the administrator of the facility after it was sold. But immediately after she
answered “Yes,” and on the very same page, this exchange ensued:
 
Q. Did you
remain as the administrator of the facility until it was closed down? 
A. But I was
not acting because there was an assistant administrator. 
Q. Yeah, my
question was, were you the administrator of the estate—sorry— 
A. Not since
I sold the business. 
Q. Sorry, let
me rephrase the question. Were you the administrator of the facility at the
time it was closed? 
A. No. 
Q. Okay. When
did you stop being the administrator of the facility? 
A. When I
sold the business. 
Q. That would
be around May of— 
A. May of
2018.
 
(Ikonte
Decl., Exh. E, Chung Depo., 22:2-17, emphasis added.)
 
In reply,
Defendant also noted that Plaintiffs’ ADF No. 28 is misleading which states
that “Chung was responsible for ensuring that Eden Manor complied with all
licensing requirements for an adult residential facility.” Plaintiffs
selectively cite from Defendant’s deposition testimony, and leave of the portion
of her testimony in which she stated:
 
Q. And that
was part of your job duties, correct? . . . 
Mr. Ikonte:
Prior to July 1, 2018. 
The Witness:
Until I sold everything to La Cada. 
Q. . . .in
your declaration, you stated after July 1, 2018. Does that mean you are
responsible before July 1, 2018?. . . 
A. Escrow
closed [in] May, but it went on until end of May, if I remember correctly. And
then I was not in control of anything at Eden Manor.
 
(Ikonte
Decl., Exh. E, Chung Depo., 107:12, 14-15, 17-20, 23-25, emphasis added.)
 
This
additional testimony contradicts Plaintiffs’ contention that Chung controlled
Eden Manor at all relevant times, or that she was responsible for ensuring
Defendant’s licensing compliance at all relevant times. 
 
Finally,
Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence to establish Defendant can be held
personally liable. “Ordinarily, a corporation is regarded as a legal entity,
separate and distinct from its stockholders, officers and directors, with
separate and distinct liabilities and obligations.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v.
Superior Ct. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) 
 
Directors or
officers of a corporation do not incur personal liability for torts of the
corporation merely by reason of their official position, unless they participate
in the wrong or authorize or direct that it be done. They may be liable, under
the rules of tort and agency, for tortious acts committed on behalf of the
corporation. They are not responsible to third persons for negligence amounting
merely to nonfeasance, to a breach of duty owing to the corporation alone; the
act must also constitute a breach of a duty owed to the third person.  (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v.
Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence to show that Defendant personally
participated in wrongdoing or authorized or directed that it be done. Rather,
Plaintiffs’ evidence only speaks to whether or not Defendant remained an
administrator of the facility. As such, Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence
which would establish Defendant’s personal liability for Decedent’s death.
 
In sum,
Plaintiffs have not submitted any evidence which could show that Defendant
remained in control of Eden Manor after the Management Agreement took effect,
or that Defendant can be held personally liable for Decedent’s death. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 