 Case Number:  22STCV20384    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JENNIFER MONTZINGO 
 
        
  vs.
 
AI AI LEUNG, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV20384  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: February 1, 2024



 
            Defendant
Ai Ai Leung’s motion to compel further responses is DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
            
On 6/22/2022,
Plaintiff Jennifer Montzingo (Plaintiff) filed suit against Ai Ai Leung,
Patrick Lau, and AP Development, LTD (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1)
housing discrimination; (2) violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act; (3) general
negligence; (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (6) violation of
privacy; (7) unlawful entry into dwelling; (8) unlawful termination of utility
by landlord; (9) unlawful obstruction of access to property; and (10) breach of
the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. 

            
            Now,
Defendant Ai Ai Leung (Defendant) moves to compel further responses to his
Requests for Production (RFPs). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that good cause exists to compel further responses from Plaintiff to his
RFPs.
 
            However,
his own motion indicates that no good faith meet and confer has taken place.
Frist, Defendant contends that the only meet and confer that was attempted was
a letter sent on November 15, 2023 identifying purported deficiencies and
demanding further responses by November 22, 2023. A single letter unilaterally
demanding responses within a week, with no additional attempt to meet and
confer again after this letter, is inadequate.
 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff had just associated counsel on the case two days prior to receiving
Defendant’s sole meet and confer communication prior to the filing of this
motion. Upon the association, Plaintiff’s Counsel was met with the task of
bringing the newly associated counsel on the case up to speed over the course
of the next two weeks (Gonzalez Dec. at ¶ 15).
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff admitted that the meet and confer responses was “lost in the
fray” as Defendants began noticing witness depositions, and Plaintiff was
served with Defendants’ MSJ shortly thereafter on November 30, 2023. 
 
            Taken
together, the Court finds that inadequate meet and confer has taken place here.
Plaintiff’s failure to respond was circumstantial, rather than intentional, and
Defendant sent a single letter and made no effort to follow up. The parties are
ordered to participate in a meaningful meet and confer and attempt informal
resolution of this matter. (CCP § 2016.040.) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel further is denied, without
prejudice. 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
            