 Case Number:  BC638735    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WELLS FARGO
  BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SCOTT SCHAMBER, etc., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: BC638735
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
CLAIM OF EXEMPTION
 
Date: 
  November 3, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Scott Schamber 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Plaintiff Wells Fargo Bank, National Association   
 
            The Court has considered Defendant’s
Claim of Exemption and Plaintiff’s Notice of Opposition thereto. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On
October 26, 2016, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Scott Schamber,
also known as Scott A. Schamber, doing business as Scott Schamber’s Snack Shop
alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) account stated; (3)
money lent; (4) breach of contract; (5) account stated; and (6) money lent. The
complaint arises from the alleged default on a business line of credit. 
 
            On
January 10, 2017, Plaintiff filed a request for Entry of Default and default
was entered against Defendant on such date. On March 7, 2017, the Court entered
default judgment against Defendant in the amount of $64,320.40. On March 29,
2017, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Entry of Judgment with the Court. The Notice
of Entry of Judgment was served on Defendant on March 28, 2017. 
 
            On August
4, 2023, the Court issued an Abstract of Judgment identifying Plaintiff as the judgment
creditor and Defendant as the judgment debtor. The Abstract of Judgment
indicates that the total amount of judgment entered or last renewed is in the
amount of $64,320.40 and that the judgment was entered on March 7, 2017. 
 
            On
August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a Memorandum of Costs after
Judgment, Acknowledgment of Credit, and Declaration of Accrued Interest which
provides that the amount of judgment principal remaining due is $64,320.40. On
August 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Writ of Execution (Money Judgment). 
 
            On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a Notice of Hearing on Claim of
Exemption, as well as a Notice of Opposition to Claim of Exemption. In
opposition to Defendant’s Claim of Exemption, Plaintiff presents the
declaration of its counsel, Yvonne Ramirez-Browning (“Ramirez-Browning”).
Plaintiff did not file a memorandum of points and authorities in support of its
Notice of Opposition to Claim of Exemption.  Defendant seeks a Claim of Exemption as to his
savings account at Chase Bank. 
 
Procedural Compliance of Plaintiff’s Notice of
Opposition 
            The
notice of opposition to the claim of exemption shall be executed under oath and
shall include both of the following: “(a) [a]n allegation either (1) that the
property is not exempt under the provision of this chapter or other statute
relied upon or (2) that the equity in the property claimed to be exempt is in
excess of the amount provided in the applicable exemption” and “(b) [a]
statement of the facts necessary to support the allegation.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
703.560.) 
 
Initially, the Court will address the
procedural compliance of Plaintiff’s Notice of Opposition. While Plaintiff
failed to check a box in Paragraph 5 of the Notice of Opposition to indicate
that either: (1) the property is not exempt under a provision or other statute
relied upon; or (2) the equity in the property claimed to be exempt is in
excess of the amount provided in the applicable exemption (See Notice of
Opposition at ¶ 5), the declaration of Ramirez-Browning asserts that
Defendant’s Chase bank account is not exempt pursuant to a homestead or funds
from a personal injury case. (Ramirez-Browning Decl., ¶¶ 6, 12.) The
declaration of Ramirez-Browning is referenced in the Notice of Opposition and
is incorporated therein. Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff has complied with
Code Civ. Proc. § 703.560. 
 
DISCUSSION
            The
claimant may make a claim of exemption by filing with the levying officer,
either in person or by mail, a claim of exemption together with a copy of the
claim. (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.520(a).) If the claimant is served by mail, the
claim shall be made within 20 days after the date the notice of levy on the
property claimed to be exempt is served on the judgment debtor. (Id.) Promptly
after the filing of the claim of exemption, the levying officer must serve the
judgment creditor with a copy of the Claim of Exemption and a Notice of Claim
of Exemption pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 703.540.

 
            To
oppose a claim of exemption, within 15 days after service of the notice of the
claim of exemption, the judgment creditor must: (1) file with the court notice
of opposition to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order
determining the claim of exemption; and (2) file a copy of the notice of
opposition and a copy of the notice of motion with the levying officer. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 703.550(a).) Upon the filing of the copies of the notice of
opposition and notice of motion, the levying officer shall promptly file the
claim of exemption with the court. (Id.) If copies of the notice of
opposition and notice of motion are not filed with the levying officer within
the time allowed, the levying officer shall immediately release the property to
the extent it is claimed to be exempt. (Id.)  
 
The claim of exemption and notice of
opposition to the claim of exemption constitute the pleadings, subject to the
power of the court to permit amendments in the interest of justice. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 703.580(a).) At a hearing on a claim of exemption, the exemption
claimant has the burden of proof. (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.580(b).) In meeting
this burden, the one who claims the exemption must establish the right by
evidence or facts; an affidavit which merely follows the language of the
statute and states nothing more than conclusions of law is insufficient. (Bertozzi v. Swisher (1938) 27 Cal.App.2d 739, 743.)
“The claim of exemption is deemed controverted by the notice of opposition to
the claim of exemption and both shall be received in evidence. If no other
evidence is offered, the court, if satisfied that sufficient facts are showing
by the claim of exemption (including the financial statement if one is required)
and the notice of opposition, may make its determination thereon. If not
satisfied, the court shall order the hearing continued for the production of
other evidence, oral or documentary.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.580(c).) At the
conclusion of the hearing, the court shall determine by order whether or not
the property is exempt in whole or in part. (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.580(d).) 
 
If the court extends the time allowed
for an act to be done under the procedure for claiming exemptions, written
notice of the extension shall be filed with the levying officer and, unless
notice is waived, shall be served promptly on the opposing party, and service
shall be made personally or by mail. (Code Civ. Proc. § 703.590.)  A hearing on a motion for claim of exemption
shall be held no later than 30 days from the date the notice of motion was
filed with the court unless continued by the court for good cause. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 703.570(a).) 
 
Defendant’s Claim of Exemption 
            “If a
homestead is sold under this division or is damaged or destroyed or is acquired
for public use, the proceeds of the sale . . . are exempt in the amount of the
homestead exemption provided in Section 704.730.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
704.720(b).) The proceeds are exempt for a period of six months after the time
the proceeds are actually received by the judgment debtor. (Id.) The
amount of a homestead exemption is the greater of: (1) the countywide median
sale price of a single-family home in the calendar year prior to the calendar
year in which the judgment debtor claims the exemption, not to exceed six
hundred thousand dollars ($600,000); or (2) three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000). (Code Civ. Proc. § 704.730(a)(1)-(2).) 
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 704.140(a) provides
that a cause of action for personal injury is exempt without making a claim. An
award of damages or a settlement arising out of personal injury is exempt to
the extent necessary for support of the judgment debtor and the spouse and
dependents of the judgment debtor. (Code Civ. Proc. § 704.140(b).) 
 
Initially, the Court finds that
Defendant’s Claim of Exemption is procedurally compliant under Code Civ. Proc.
§ 703.520. The Claim of Exemption seeks to exempt Defendant’s Chase bank savings
account on the grounds that the property claimed to be exempt are funds
remaining from the sale of a homestead and funds from a personal injury case.[1]
(Ramirez-Browning Decl., ¶ 5 and Exhibit 3 at p.1.)  Defendant states that he “sold [his]
homestead and the proceeds are partially that and funds received from a PI case
for damages.” (Id.) Defendant declares that he requests an exemption of
all the funds in his bank account and that he is disabled and needs the money
to make upgrades to his house to make it more livable for his disabilities. (Id.,
Exhibit 3 at p.4.) Defendant states that 50 percent of the funds in his account
belong to his wife. (Id.) 
 
Defendant provides a Financial
Statement to support his Claim of Exemption. (Ramirez Browning Decl., Exhibit 3
at pp. 2-3.) Defendant indicates that his total monthly income is $2,022.00,
which are social security disability funds. (Id., Exhibit 3 at p.2.)
Defendant states that his spouse, Maria Munoz Schamber, does not receive a
monthly take-home income. (Id.) Defendant’s total monthly expenses are
in the amount of $4,200. (Id., Exhibit 3 at p.3.) Defendant makes a
monthly payment of $50.00 towards a credit card that has a total balance of
$514.00. (Id.) 
 
            Defendant
owns the following property: cash in the amount of $112.00 (Id., Exhibit
3 at p.2), a Chase savings account which is on levy with a balance of
$64,412.40 (Id.), a Chase checking account with a balance of $313.00 (Id.),
two cars with a collective value of $2,500.00 (Id.), real estate equity
in the amount of $167,000.00 (Id.), and 20 year-old furniture worth $2,000.00
(Id.). 
 
Analysis 
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that:
(1) since the date of the judgment no payment has been received leaving the
current judgment balance of $64,320.40 (Ramirez-Brown Decl., ¶ 3); (2)
Defendant’s bank account was levied in September 2023 to attempt to recover the
outstanding debt (Id., ¶ 5 and Exhibit 2); (3) as a result of the levy,
Defendant submitted his Claim of Exemption (Id., ¶ 5 and Exhibit 3); (4)
Defendant failed to provide any type of bank statements, proof of sale of
homestead, court documents for personal injury cases, letters, or agreements to
support his Claim of Exemption (Id., ¶ 6); (5) Defendant provides no
supporting documents to substantiate expenses as stated in Sections 4 and 5 in
Defendant’s Financial Statement (Id., ¶ 7); and (6) due to Defendant’s
failure to provide proof of earnings and proof of expenses, it is impossible to
determine a percentage of the levy that can be claimed for exemption (Id.,
¶ 8). 
 
The Court finds that while Defendant
has provided a Financial Statement, Defendant has not provided any bank
statements, proof of the amount of homestead proceeds and when such proceeds
were obtained, or proof of damages awarded from the personal injury case.  Defendant has not met his burden under Code
Civ. Proc. § 703.580(b) and Bertozzi v. Swisher, supra, 27
Cal.App.2d 739, 743 to warrant an exemption. Besides the Claim of Exemption and
the declaration in support thereof, the Court lacks a sufficient evidentiary basis
to ascertain whether Defendant’s Chase bank savings account is exempt because
it contains funds from the sale of a homestead, funds received from a personal
injury case for damages, or is being utilized to make Defendant’s home more
livable for his disabilities.  Defendant
has not met his burden in showing that the funds in his Chase bank savings
account come within the scope of California Code of Civil Procedure,
Sections 704.720, 704.730, or 704.140. 
 
The Court therefore DENIES
Defendant’s Claim of Exemption unless Defendant provides competent evidence at
the hearing establishing Defendant’s Chase bank savings account to be exempt
from the judgment in this action. 
            
 Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this
ruling to all interested parties. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
          
Dated this 3rd day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






