 Case Number:  23STCV12951    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HOWARD BUILDING
  CORPORATION, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MAGUIRE PROPERTIES – 777 TOWER, LLC, et
  al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV12951
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER AND MOTION TO
  STRIKE COMPLAINT 
 
Date: November 3, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Maguire Properties – 777 Tower, LLC (“Maguire”); Brookfield DTLA Holdings, LLC,
and Brookfield Properties Management (CA), Inc. (collectively, “Brookfield Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff,
Howard Building Corporation
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This is an action arising from a
breach of a construction agreement. Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff and
Defendant Maguire entered into a construction agreement but Moving Defendants
breached the Agreement by failing and refusing to pay the balance of monies due
Plaintiff under the agreement for the labor and materials used on the Project. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) quantum
meruit; (3) open book account; (4) account stated; and (5) foreclosure of
mechanic’s lien.           
 
            Moving Defendants filed a demurrer
and motion to strike the Complaint. Moving Defendants demur to the first
through fourth causes of action alleged against the Brookfield Defendants on
the ground that the causes of action fail to state sufficient facts because the
Brookfield Defendants are neither parties to the underlying contract nor owners
of the Property at issue. Moving Defendants also demur to the fifth cause of
action on the ground that the foreclosure of mechanic’s lien cause of action
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Moving
Defendants as the Complaint does not state facts that Plaintiff complied with
the statutory requirements, and fails to attach the underlying mechanic’s lien.
 
            Moving Defendants also move to
strike Paragraphs 8-11 of the Complaint which contain alter ego allegations. 
             
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Moving Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice of the
following: (1) a copy of the Los Angeles Zone Information Map Access System
(ZIMAS) search results for 777 S. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, California
90017; and (2) a copy of the Grant Deed, recorded March 17, 2005, as Instrument
Number 050615392, whereby 777 SOUTH FIG, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company transferred to MAGUIRE PROPERTIES – 777 TOWER, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company the real property in the City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, State of California, described in the attached Exhibit A, including
APN 5144- 009-047.
 
            The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ request pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(c) and (h). 
 
            Plaintiff requests that
the Court take judicial notice of the following: (1) HBC’s Mechanics Lien,
recorded April 10, 2023; (2) Plaintiff’s Notice of Lis Pendens, recorded June
12, 2023; (3) Property details report for real property 777 S. Figueroa Street,
Los Angeles, CA 90017; (4) Deed of Trust, recorded October 16, 2023; (5) Tax
Sheet for year 2023-2024 for 777 S. Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, CA 90017. 
 
            The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice for Exhibits 1-2 pursuant to Evidence
Code § 452(c). However, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for Exhibits 3-5. 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.”  (Id.)  “The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations, giving them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.” 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  In the demurrer
context a court “may also take notice of exhibits attached to the
complain[t].”  (Holland v. Morse
Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)  “If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence.”  (Id.)
DEMURRERS
Issue 1: Brookfield Defendants 
            Defendants argue that
the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to support any cause of action
against the Brookfield Defendants because the Brookfield Defendants are neither
parties to the underlying contract, nor owners of the subject Property. Defendants
argue that the alter ego allegations in the Complaint are insufficient. 
 
            “To recover on an
alter ego theory, a plaintiff need not use the words ‘alter ego,’ but must
allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and an
unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor.” (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 696.) A showing of inadequate capitalization,
commingling of assets, and disregard of corporate formalities are critical
facts which may demonstrate that an inequitable result would have followed.¿ (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1285.) 

 
            The Complaint alleges
that Brookfield Defendants are “owner[s] or reputed owner[s],
lender[s]/investor[s] or reputed lender[s]/investor[s] of the [Subject
Property].” (Compl. ¶ 3-4.)  The
Complaint additionally states that Plaintiff entered the construction contract
with only Defendant Maguire. (Compl. ¶ 12, Ex. A.) Defendants put forward
evidence of the Grant Deed for the Property in their Request for Judicial
Notice. The Grant Deed states that Defendant Maguire is the owner of the
Subject Property. (RJN Ex. 2.) 
 
            The Complaint also
alleges that there is a unity of interest and ownership between “Defendants
Maguire, Brookfield Holdings and Brookfield Properties as related entities
owned and operated by the same individuals/companies… that any individuality
and separateness between the Defendants has ceased, and that each of the
Defendants are the alter ego of the other Defendants.” (Compl. ¶ 8.) The
Complaint further alleges that Defendants have commingled funds and other
assets, diverted corporate or limited liability company funds or assets to other
uses, treated their assets as if they belonged to the related entities, failed
to obtain authority to issue stock membership certificates, held out the
limited liability entities as being liable for the debts of the corporations,
failed to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records, failed to adequately
capitalize the corporations, used the corporation and limited liability
companies as mere shells, concealed or misrepresented the identity of the
responsible owner, used the corporate entity to procure labor, and diverted
assets to other related entities to the detriment of corporation. (Compl. ¶ 9.)

 
            Defendants argue that
these alter ego allegations lack any factual support and are rather “a
recitation of factors that may be considered when a party desires to impose
alter ego liability.” (Mot., p. 6:16-17.) 
 
            The Court finds that
these alter ego allegations are sufficient. The alter ego allegations contained
in Paragraph 9 of the Complaint are factual allegations, not legal conclusions
such as “Defendants are the alter ego of one another.” Nor are these
allegations stated as “factors” in the Complaint; rather, these statements are
allegations against particular Defendants. Defendants cite to no authority that
alter ego allegations need to be pled with more specificity. In fact, Plaintiff was required to allege only “ultimate rather than evidentiary
facts” necessary to support alter ego theory. (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 221, 236; Doe v. City of Los
Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) Moreover, the “less
particularity [of pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to
possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that
possessed by the plaintiff,” which is the case here. (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co. (1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474.)   Additionally, at the pleading stage, Plaintiff
is not required to provide “proof” of these allegations, as any factual
allegation is accepted as true. (See Durell, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 1358.)
 
            The Court notes that
Plaintiff includes additional facts relating to the alter ego allegations in
its opposition brief, including allegations that Brookfield Defendants directed
the construction work, handled the finances, and had employees that worked with
Plaintiff. These facts are improper for the Court to consider in demurrer;
however, as Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts in the Complaint to
withstand demurrer, the Court need not consider these additional allegations. 
 
            Defendant further
argues that Plaintiff was a sophisticated party and thus cannot expand the
Agreement to include unrelated parties to the Agreement. The case that Defendants
cite to dealt with a situation where the court found that the defendant was not
the alter ego of a codefendant. As the Court addresses, Plaintiff has provided
sufficient alter ego allegations to survive demurrer.  
 
            Moving Defendants’
demurrer to all causes of action as to the Brookfield Defendants is overruled. 
            
Issue 2: Demurrer to Fifth Cause of Action for
Foreclosure of Mechanic’s Lien  
            Moving Defendants argue that
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to support a fifth cause of action
for foreclosure of mechanic’s lien because the Complaint fails to state facts
that Plaintiff served Defendants with the requisite preliminary lien notices,
and the Complaint is uncertain because it fails to include a copy of the
mechanic’s lien. 
            
             “A claimant may enforce a lien only if the
claimant has given preliminary notice to the extent required by Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 8200) and made proof of notice.”  (Civ. Code, § 8410.) Except as otherwise
provided by statute, before recording a lien claim, a claimant must give
preliminary notice to the “owner or reputed owner” of the property on which a
lien will be claimed for work performed or materials used.  (Id. at § 8200 (a)(1).)  Statutory compliance is strictly required to
enforce a lien claim.  (See, e.g., Kim
v. JF Enterprises (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 849, 854—855; see also e.g., Truestone,
Inc. v. Simi West Industrial Park II (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 715, 721.) Civil
Code section 8200(e)(2) provides exceptions to this preliminary notice
requirement for “claimant[s] with a direct contractual relationship with an
owner or reputed owner,” who are required to only provide notice to the
construction lender. 
 
            The Complaint states that “Plaintiff
was excused from giving written notice, pursuant to Section 8200 et seq. of the
Civil Code of the State of California, to Defendant since Plaintiff was the
direct contractor for the Work of Improvement.” (Compl. ¶ 35.) The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff had a construction contract with Maguire. (Compl. ¶ 14.)
The Complaint additionally asserts sufficient alter ego allegations between
Maguire and Brookfield Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 8-11.) As such, Plaintiff has
properly pled that it was excused from giving preliminary notice to Moving
Defendants. 
 
            Defendants additionally argue that
the Complaint is uncertain because the Complaint fails to include the
mechanic’s lien, arguing that the specific property is uncertain. A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to. (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139.) The Court does not find that the fifth cause of action is uncertain.
Defendants cite to no authority that the mechanic’s lien needs to be attached
to the Complaint. Further, the Complaint states the address of the property
that Plaintiff provided work on throughout the Complaint. (See Compl. ¶¶ 12,
14, 31, 32.)  
 
            As such, the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is overruled.    
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
            Defendants move to strike
Paragraphs 8-11, which are the paragraphs containing the alter ego allegations.
Defendants make the same arguments as they did in the demurrer, arguing that
the alter ego allegations are improper and irrelevant. However, as discussed
above, Defendants’ arguments fails, and the alter ego allegations are
sufficiently pled. As such, the motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
            The motion to strike is DENIED.  
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 3rd
day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



