 Case Number:  23BBCV01087    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
alex haddad,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
federal express
  corporation, et
  al,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01087
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 6, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Alex
Haddad (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was an employee of and driver for
Defendant Federal Express Corporation (“FedEx”).  He alleges that on September 19, 2018, while
he was working and driving FedEx’s truck in the course and scope of his
employment, he was involved in an automobile accident in Burbank.  He alleges that he and FedEx were insured
under an insurance policy issued by Defendant Protective Insurance Corporation
dba Protective Insurance Company (“Protective”). 
Plaintiff alleges
that the driver of the other vehicle, Allison Norris (“Norris”), filed a
lawsuit against Plaintiff and FedEx (LASC Case No. 20STCV23537); and Plaintiff
sued Norris and the registered owner of the vehicle that struck the FedEx
vehicle (LASC Case No. 20STCV16961), which were related.  Plaintiff alleges that the Underinsured
Motorist Benefit Insurance (“UMBI”) policy issued by Protective for FedEx had a
policy limit of $10 million, which was sufficient to cover Plaintiff’s
injuries.  He alleges that the parties in
the related actions participated in inter-company arbitration, which found
Norris at 80% fault and Plaintiff at 20% fault resulting in FedEx and Plaintiff
settling with Norris for $80,000.  On
August 1, 2022, the insurance carrier for Norris offered and paid the policy
limits of $1,250,000 to Plaintiff and State Law Firm (his attorneys), and the
related actions were dismissed.  
Thereafter,
Plaintiff sent a Demand for Arbitration to/for the UMBI benefits to FedEx, and
FedEx through its insurance claims administrators Broadspire and Crawford and
Company in November 2022 sent a declaration of UMBI coverage from 2017.  Plaintiff alleges that FedEx is estopped from
asserting a declination of UMBI coverage. 

The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed June 16, 2023, alleges causes of action for:
(1) declaratory relief; (2) breach of contract; (3) bad faith denial of
insurance claim; (4) violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et
seq.; and (5) promissory estoppel.  
B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On August 31,
2023, FedEx filed a demurrer to the FAC.  Although reserved as a demurrer and motion to
strike, the Court notes that only a demurrer was filed. 
On September 25,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.
On September 29,
2023, FedEx filed a reply brief. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With
the demurrer papers, FedEx requests judicial notice of: (A) Plaintiff’s
complaint filed on May 15, 2023; and (B) Plaintiff’s FAC filed on June 16,
2023.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
            With
the opposition papers, Plaintiff requests judicial notice of: (1) the complaint
filed by Norris on June 22, 2020 in LASC Case No. 20STCV23537.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)
DISCUSSION
            FedEx
demurs to each of the 5 causes of action alleged in the FAC, arguing that they
are barred by the litigation privilege, barred due to Plaintiff’s exclusive
remedy in worker’s compensation, and each cause of action fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against FedEx.              
A.   
Litigation Privilege
The litigation privilege provides in part
that a privileged publication or broadcast is one made in any legislative,
judicial, or official proceeding authorized by law, or in the initiation or
course of any other proceeding authorized by law and reviewable.  (Civ. Code, §47(b).)  It applies to any communication: “(1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action.”  (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006)
37 Cal.4th 1048, 1057.)  The litigation privilege
is interpreted broadly in order to achieve the purpose of curtailing derivative
lawsuits.  (Olsen
v. Harbison (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 325, 333 [“The breadth of the litigation privilege cannot be
understated. It immunizes defendants from virtually any tort liability
(including claims for fraud), with the sole exception of causes of action for
malicious prosecution.”].)  
FedEx argues that Plaintiff’s case relies
on statements made by FedEx during discovery in prior litigation such that the
litigation privilege applies and bars this action.  FedEx argues that each cause of action relies
on the documents that FedEx identified and produced
in verified discovery responses in prior litigation.  
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges
that in November 2022, FedEx through its insurance claims administrator sent
Plaintiff’s counsel a declination of UMBI coverage from 2017, which was never
disclosed in the consolidated third-party Haddad v. Norris/Norris v. Haddad
and FedEx cases.  (FAC, ¶6.)  (More clearly, in the 5th cause of
action for promissory estoppel, Plaintiff alleges that at no time prior to
settlement of the third-party case against Norris, and not until the demand for
arbitration was sent to FedEx, did FedEx and Protective for the first time
indicate that FedEx in 2017 had declined the UMBI coverage contained in the
insurance policy declarations page. [FAC, ¶33.].)  He alleges that only the Policy Declaration
page showing UMBI coverage (and third-party coverage) was disclosed and
verified under penalty of perjury by a FedEx liability claims adjuster, such
that FedEx is estopped from asserting the declination of UMBI coverage.[1]  (Id.) 

Plaintiff argues in opposition
that FedEx has not shown that the litigation privilege applies to the facts of
the FAC because FedEx has not shown that the elements of the privilege have
been met – i.e., that the communications were made to Plaintiff to achieve the
objects of litigation and that FedEx’s prior communications to Norris were
somehow connected or had a logical relation to the prior action or this present
action.  Plaintiff argues that it was
Norris who served the production requests on FedEx and Plaintiff, seeking
copies of the insurance policies and it was counsel who responded to Norris’
discovery request by submitting a declaration page showing UMBI coverage and
third-party coverage by Haddad and FedEx. 
(FedEx RJN, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff
argues that FedEx has not shown how the declaration page (which omitted the
declination of UMBI coverage) was a communication that was connected with or
logically related to Norris’ claim for personal injury or property damage when
Norris could not avail herself to UMBI benefits for damages caused by FedEx or
Plaintiff.  
            The Court
recognizes that Plaintiff is not necessarily alleging a cause of action based
on misrepresentations or “communications” (or publication/broadcast) in the
literal sense of the word.  Instead,
Plaintiff is arguing that FedEx and Protective failed to disclose (whether by
misrepresentations, omissions, or concealment) that they would be declining
UMBI coverage to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
argues that these omissions did not achieve the objects of the Norris/Haddad
related actions and that they were not connected to nor had a logical relation
to these underlying actions.  However,
had there been no underlying actions, FedEx/Protective would not have produced
the discovery to Norris, as well as fail to make statements about whether
Plaintiff would be covered with UMBI benefits. 

The Court recognizes that causes of action
based on an alleged concealment of information, rather than affirmative
communications, can be protected by the litigation privilege.  For example, in Kupiec v. American
International Adjustment Co. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1326, the plaintiff had
discovered that her painting was no longer in place at the hotel where the work
was commissioned.  The hotel was aware
that it was severely damaged, but told her that the painting was in storage or
transferred to another location.  The
insurance companies settled plaintiff’s claim against the hotel, but plaintiff
sued the hotel for, among other things, intentional concealment of
evidence.  She alleged that the insurer
had purposefully misrepresented and concealed its actual knowledge of the
whereabouts of the painting, which delayed resolving her claim against the
hotel.  The Court of Appeal found that
the alleged concealment and misrepresentation of facts and the alleged actions
of the insurer to abuse the discovery process were all acts that were, in their
essential nature, communicative.  (Kupiec,
supa, 235 Cal.App.3d at 1333.)  “The core of Kupiec's [plaintiff] lawsuit
is that American [defendant insurer] made misstatements to her; and in
communications with its agents and attorneys, American carried out a plan to
delay the prior lawsuit and to avoid liability. Such conduct is communicative
and comes within the privilege defined by section 47, subdivision (b)(2).
American's general demurrer was properly sustained.”  (Id.) 

            Based on the
allegations of the complaint, the Court finds that the litigation privilege
applies.  FedEx/Protective’s discovery
responses were produced in the Norris/Haddad underlying cases (which is a
judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding) to achieve the objects of the litigations
and that had some connection or logical relation to the actions.  
As such, the demurrer on this
ground is sustained.  The Court will
determine at the hearing whether leave to amend is proper.  
Even in the absence of
application of the privilege, it is very hard to understand how the
communications at issue here could have damaged Plaintiff. It is also hard to
understand how the disclosure of the allegedly concealed statements could have
benefited Plaintiff. 
B.    
Exclusive Remedy – Worker’s Compensation and Failure
to State Sufficient Facts 
In light of
the ruling on the demurrer on the basis of the litigation privilege, the Court need
not discuss the remainder of the demurrer arguments.  
However, the
Court will briefly address some of the arguments.  
First, the
Court finds merit with FedEx’s argument that workers’ compensation is
Plaintiff’s exclusive remedy.  FedEx argues that Plaintiff’s exclusive remedy against FedEx is through
workers’ compensation because: (1) at the time of the incident, there was an
employment relationship between Plaintiff and FedEx; (2) Plaintiff was
performing services growing out of and incidental to his employment, and was
acting within the course of his employment; and (3) the injury was proximately
caused by the employment, with or without negligence.  (See Labor Code, § 3600(a)(1)-(3).)  
California's Workers' Compensation
Act provides an employee's exclusive remedy against his or her employer for
injuries arising out of and in the course of employment.   (Wright v. State of California (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 1218, 1229 [citing Labor Code, § 3600 et seq.].)  The injury must
have: (1) arisen out of the employment, which relates to the origin or cause of
the injury; and (2) occurred in the course of the employment, which relates to
the time and place of the injury.  (Id.) 
Labor Code, § 3602 states in relevant part: 
(a) Where the conditions of compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur,
the right to recover compensation is, except as specifically provided in this
section and Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and
exclusive remedy of the employee or his or her dependents against the employer. The fact that either the employee or the
employer also occupied another or dual capacity prior to, or at the time of,
the employee's industrial injury shall not permit the employee or his or her
dependents to bring an action at law for damages against the employer.
(Lab. Code, §
3602(a).) 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Legislature
“never intended that an employer's fraud be encompassed
within the risk of employment” for the purposes of section 3600 et
seq. "never intended to cover an employer’s fraud arising out of the
employment.  (Piscitelli v. Friedenberg (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 953,
987–988.)  He
argues that this action is about Plaintiff’s denial of contractual benefits
under the policy of insurance by FedEx’s intentional concealment of his UMBI
benefits, and that these claims are not within the workers’ compensation
framework.  However, based on the allegations
of the FAC, Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to show that FedEx
committed fraud (either by misrepresentations or concealment/omissions,
reliance thereto, damages) against Plaintiff that would take this action
outside the scope of workers’ compensation. 

Further, with
respect to the 1st, 2nd, and 5th causes of
action for declaratory relief, breach of contract, and promissory estoppel,
Plaintiff has not alleged what contract was at issue.  While Plaintiff argues that he was the
permissive user and third-party beneficiary of the insurance policy between
FedEx and Protective, he has not alleged any facts supporting this argument, he
has not provided a copy of the insurance policy showing that he (or other FedEx
employees) were intended third-party beneficiaries, and he has not alleged an
employment contract between Plaintiff and FedEx showing that FedEx agreed to
provide him with UMBI insurance coverage on top of workers’ compensation
benefits.  This would be another ground
to sustain the demurrer to the 1st, 2nd, and 5th
causes of action.  Moreover, in light of
these findings, the demurrer to 4th cause of action for violation of Business &
Professions Code, § 17200 et seq. is sustained as the UCL cause of action
relies on these other causes of action. 
The Court
sustains the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action for bad faith
denial of insurance claim against FedEx without leave to amend as Plaintiff concedes that the FAC does not
state sufficient facts against FedEx.   (Opp. at p.4.)  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Federal Express Corporation’s
demurrer to the FAC is sustained without leave to amend as to the 3rd
cause of action as alleged against Defendant Federal Express Corporation
only.  The demurrer to the 1st,
2nd, 4th, and 5th causes of action is sustained.  The Court will hear
oral argument regarding whether leave to amend is proper.  Plaintiff has the burden of showing the
manner in which Plaintiff can amend the pleadings to correct this defect and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349.)  
Defendant shall
give notice of this order.  
 



