  Case Number:  22STCV31797    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Jesus
  Siordia, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
united
  aeronautical corporation, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV31797
 
  Hearing Date: October 6, 2023
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to intervene
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Jesus Siordia, Irene Fombona,
James Siordia, Deisi Martinez, Fernando Avilez, Angela Savanna Gonzalez (a
minor, by and through her guardian ad litem Deisi Martinez) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) allege that on May 27, 2021, an explosion occurred at a facility
operated by National Technical Systems, Inc. (“NTS”), which is located in
Fullerton.  They allege that the
explosion caused the death of NTS employee Jesse Siordia (“Decedent”).  They allege Decedent was the son of Jesus
Siordia and Irene Fombona; the brother of James Siordia and Deisi Martinez; and
the uncle to Angela Savanna Gonzalez and Fernando Avilez.  Plaintiffs allege they are entitled to
wrongful death damages and right of survivorship damages. 
Plaintiffs allege that the location was
owned by Defendants ERSLAND Training Center Corporation (“ERSLAND”) and ETCR,
Inc. (“ETCR”).  On May 27, 2021, NTS was
providing its facility to Defendant United Aeronautical Corporation (“UAC”),
which was testing a C-130 Modular Airborne Fire Fighting System (“MFASS
Part”).  Plaintiffs allege that UAC was
in charge of testing the MAFFS Part, while NTS supplied the power and testing
chamber, and passively monitored the test for radio emissions.  Defendants GXAerospace, Inc. Parker Hannifin
Corporation, Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc., and Norton Sales, Inc.
were all manufacturers and/or distributors of various component parts that
comprised the MAFFS part.  Defendant Mario
Nino is alleged to be the contractor for UAC employed by Defendant Triad
Systems International who was present at the explosion and in charge of setting
up the testing.  
The complaint, filed on September 28,
2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) strict products
liability; (3) strict liability for ultrahazardous activities; (4) breach of
warranties; (5) breach of contract; (6) right of survivorship; and (7) punitive
damages. 
On January 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint naming Doe 1 as JCC California Properties, LLC (“JCC
CP”).   
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendant ETCR, Inc. 
On May 22, 2023, by Plaintiff’s oral
request, Defendant ERSLAND Training Center Corporation was dismissed without
prejudice. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints
On December 23, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant GXAerospace, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant UAC for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) express indemnity; (3)
implied indemnity; (4) contribution; and (5) declaratory relief. 
On December 28, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant UAC filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-30 for:
(1) total equitable indemnity; (2) comparative indemnity; (3) equitable
apportionment of fault; (4) contribution; (5) declaratory relief; and (6)
express indemnity. 
On January 17, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Norton Sales, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against
Roes 1-30 for: (1) total equitable indemnity; (2) comparative indemnity; (3)
equitable apportionment of fault; (4) contribution; (5) declaratory relief; and
(6) express indemnity. 
On January 31, 2023,
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Tri-Tech Systems, Inc. dba Triad Systems
International (“Triad”) and Mario Nino (“Nino”) filed a cross-complaint against
UAC for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) implied indemnity; (3) express indemnity;
(4) declaratory relief; and (5) contribution.
On April 3, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant JCC California Properties, LLC field a
cross-complaint against Roes 1-25 for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2)
apportionment; (3) contribution; and (4) declaratory relief: equitable
apportionment contribution and indemnification. 

C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On September 6, 2023, NTS Technical
Systems, LLC (“NTS”) filed a motion for leave to intervene in the action.  
On September 25, 2023, UAC filed an
opposition brief. 
            On September 29, 2023, NTS filed a
reply brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
CCP § 387(d)(2) allows a nonparty to
intervene when they have an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.  CCP § 387(d)(1) states that the court shall
permit a nonparty to intervene if either is satisfied: (A) a provision of law
confers an unconditional right to intervene; or (B) “[t]he person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so
situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that
person's ability to protect that interest, unless that person's interest is
adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.”  
“A third party may intervene in an action if (1) the party has a direct and
immediate interest in the action; (2) the intervention will not enlarge the
issues in the litigation; and (3) the reasons for the intervention outweigh any
opposition by the parties presently in the action.”  (US Ecology, Inc. v.
State of California (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 113, 139.) 
DISCUSSION

NTS moves to
intervene in this action and file a complaint in intervention.  NTS argues that its employee was killed as a
result of the explosion incident and NTS has paid sums in excess of $1 million
towards repair of damage and replacement of property destroyed at its facility
where the incident occurred and which, upon information and belief, was caused
by the negligence of the other parties and/or defective products manufactured
by other parties.  
A copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention is attached to the Declaration of Douglas K. Lackey
as Exhibit A.  The complaint in
intervention is brought against UAC, GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation
(“Parker”), Motion and Flow Control Products, Inc. (“M&F”), Norton Sales,
Inc., Triad, and Nino for: (1) negligence; and (2) strict products
liability.  
In support of the motion, NTS provides the
declaration of its counsel Mr. Lackey.  Mr.
Lackey states that NTS has a testing facility at 1534 E. Valencia Drive in
Fullerton and it entered into an agreement with UAC, whereby NTS provided its
testing facility to UAC for purposes of testing by UAC of its MAFFS unit.  (Lackey Decl., ¶2.)  He states that beyond supplying power, the
testing chamber, and conducting the measurement of radio emissions put out by
the MAFFS property while it was operated by UAC, NTS merely passively monitored
the test.  (Id.)  He states that on May 27, 2021, in the course
of the operation of the MAFFS property by UAC, an explosion and fire occurred,
which caused the death of Decedent and millions of dollars of property loss to
NTS.  (Id., ¶¶3, 5, 6.)  Mr. Lackey states that GXAerospace, Parker,
M&F, Norton, Triad, and Nino either manufactured and/or distributed
component parts of the MAFFS unit or were participants in the design,
engineering, or execution of the testing being carried out.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that pursuant to the applicable NTS
first party insurance coverage, NTS was responsible for and has paid the sum of
$1 million in satisfaction of its deductible obligation applicable to the
property damage losses, as well as economic losses stemming from the incident
that was not subject to any insurance coverage in excess of $50,000.  (Id., ¶6.)  Mr. Lackey states that NTS has sought a
stipulation from the other parties in order to intervene, but UAC and JCC CP
are the only parties that have not signed the stipulation.  (Id., ¶¶7, 11, Ex. B.)  Mr. Lackey states that NTS seeks to intervene
and defend its own interests, which would be adversely affected if it is not
granted leave to intervene.  (Id.,
¶8.)  He states that NTS’s claims and
evidentiary presentation relating to
issues of liability and causation are identical to Plaintiffs’ claims with the
only difference being the damages claim of the respective parties. (Id.,
¶9.)  He states that intervention would
serve the interests of judicial efficiency and economy by addressing all such
issues once rather than via a multiplicity of lawsuits.  (Id.) 

In opposition, UAC argues that Westchester Surplus Line Insurance
Company (“Westchester”) originally filed a lawsuit in Orange County, which was
dismissed and refiled in Los Angeles County, as the subrogee of NTS.  UAC argues that Westchester’s complaint
alleges causes of action for negligence, strict products liability, ultrahazardous
activity, breach of warranties, and breach of contract.  (Montanari Decl., Ex. C [August 4, 2023 Westchester
Complaint filed in LASC Case No. 23BBCV01790].) 
UAC argues that NTS does not have a direct interest in this Siordia
action, but instead has an interest in the Westchester insurance action.  UAC argues that NTS does not have a direct
interest in this action, allowing NTS to intervene in this action would cause a
splitting of causes of action, and its interest are adequately protected by
virtue of Westchester’s action (where NTS should have been named as a
co-plaintiff with Westchester).  
In reply, NTS
argues that Westchester is the “partial” subrogee of NTS, NTS is not an
insurance company, and its claims against UAC and the other defendants are its
own separate causes of action based on violation of NTS’s primary rights
stemming from the explosion.  (Reply at
p.1.)[1]  NTS relies on several cases, including Allstate
Ins. Co. v. Mel Rapton, Inc. (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 901, 908, which states in relevant part: 
When,
as often happens, the insured is only partially compensated by the insurer for
a loss (because of deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions), operation of
the subrogation doctrine “results in two or more parties having a right of
action for recovery of damages based upon the same underlying cause of action.”
(Ferraro v. Southern Cal. Gas Co., supra, 102 Cal.App.3d at p.
41, fn. omitted.) The insured retains the right to sue the responsible party
for any loss not fully compensated by insurance, and the insurer has the right
to sue the responsible party for the insurer's loss in paying on the insurance
policy. (Ibid.) The insurer is not limited to an action in intervention
but may bring a separate independent action to recover directly from the third
party tortfeasor. (Deutschmann v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1982) 132
Cal.App.3d 912, 915-916 [183 Cal.Rptr. 573].)
Although
the insurer may bring a separate action against the tortfeasor, the rule
against splitting a cause of action is violated where both the insurer and
insured pursue separate actions. (Bright v. American Termite Control Co.
(1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1464, 1468-1469 [269 Cal.Rptr. 793]; Ferraro v.
Southern Cal. Gas Co., supra, 102 Cal.App.3d at p. 41.) This is so
because the general rule of subrogation provides that an insurer stands in the
shoes of its insured; if a second action by the insured is barred, so is the
action by the insurer. (Griffin v. Calistro (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 193,
196 [280 Cal.Rptr. 30]; see also Allstate Ins. Co. v. Loo (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 1794, 1799 [54 Cal.Rptr.2d 541] [the insurer has no greater rights
than the insured would have and is subject to the same defenses assertable
against the insured].) To avoid a violation of the rule against splitting a
cause of action, the insured and insurer “should join in a single suit against
the tortfeasor.” (Ferraro v. Southern Cal. Gas Co., supra, at
p. 43; Bank of Orient v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 588, 595
[136 Cal.Rptr. 741].)
(Allstate, supra, 77 Cal.App.4th at 908-909 [emphasis added].)

While UAC is concerned about the splitting
of causes of action, the remedy to avoid this concern is to have the insured
and insurer join in a single suit.  Here,
it appears that efforts are being made to achieve this as Westchester is
seeking to transfer its action to Los Angeles County.  Further, NTS is asserting separate causes of
action against the parties in this action for the explosion that occurred and
thereby would be seeking to pursue its own claims in the action, such that its interests
would not be adequately or fully covered by only having Westchester participate
in the action.  Finally, the Court finds
that allowing intervention will promote judicial economy.  (Hodge v. Kirkpatrick
Development, Inc. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 540, 554 [“Intervention would,
however, be necessary to serve the legislative purpose of preventing multiple
litigation.”].)  Technically, NTS could
file its own action and seek to have its case related/consolidated with the
other actions.  Allowing intervention
prevents further delays in this action.  
For these reasons,
the motion for leave to intervene is granted. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
NTS Technical Systems, LLC’s motion for
leave to intervene in the action is granted.  NTS is ordered to electronically file a copy
of the complaint in intervention following the hearing on this matter.  
The parties are ordered to attend the
hearing to provide updates to the Court regarding whether there are any other
lawsuits regarding this matter that are not presently in Los Angeles
County.  Namely, the Court would like to
inquire about the status of the Westchester Surplus Line Insurance Company case that is filed in
Orange County. 
NTS shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 


