 Case Number:  23GDCV00414    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
christen zamora,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
mercedes-benz usa, llc,
  et al.,
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case
  No.:  23GDCV00414
    
  Hearing
  Date:  October 6, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel arbitration; motions to compel further responses 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Christen Zamora (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action against
Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”) and Fletcher Jones Motor Cars, Inc.
dba Mercedes-Benz of Ontario (“Mercedes-Benz of Ontario”) concerning the lease
of a 2020 Mercedes-Benz C300W.  MBUSA is
alleged to have warranted the subject vehicle, but Plaintiff alleges that the
vehicle was delivered with serious defects and nonconformities, including defects
with the engine, emission, transmission, and electrical system.  
MBUSA is alleged to be the manufacturer or distributor of the vehicle
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act. 
Plaintiffs allege that they delivered the subject vehicle to Mercedes-Benz
of Ontario for repairs on numerous occasions, but it failed to properly store,
prepare, and repair the subject vehicle in accordance with industry
standards.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed March 22, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty; (2) violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty;
(3) violation of the Song-Beverly Act, § 1793.2; and (4) negligent repair.  The 1st to 3rd causes of
action are alleged against MBUSA.  The 4th
cause of action is alleged against Mercedes-Benz of Ontario.  
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On May 3, 2023, Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC filed a motion to
compel Plaintiff to arbitrate this action and stay the action pending the
outcome of the arbitration.  
On August 1, 2023, Defendant Jones Ontario Acquisition, LLC dba
Mercedes-Benz of Ontario (“MBO”) filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to: (1) form interrogatories (“FROG”); (2) special interrogatories
(“SROG”); and (3) request for production of documents (“RPD”).  On September 29, 2023, MBO filed a notice of
non-opposition to its motions. 
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
A.   
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”) requests judicial notice of:
(1) Plaintiff’s FAC filed on March 22, 2023. The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
B.    
Discussion of Merits 
MBUSA moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her claims based on the
Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (“Lease”). 

1.     
Terms of the Agreement to Arbitration 
In support of the motion, MBUSA provides the declaration of defense
counsel Ali Ameripour, which attaches a copy of the Lease.  (Ameripour Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2 [Lease].)  
The Lease is entered between Lessor/Dealer
Mercedes Benz of Encino and Lessee Plaintiff Christen Zamora.  The Lease includes a section entitled
“Important Arbitration Disclosures,” which states in relevant part:
The following arbitration
provisions significantly affect your rights in any dispute with us. Please read
the following disclosures and the arbitration provision that follows carefully
before you sign the contract.  
1. If either you or we
choose, any dispute between you and us will be decided by arbitration and not
in court.
2. If such dispute is
arbitrated, you and we will give up the right to trial by a court or a jury
trial. 
…
4. The information that can
be obtained in discovery from each other or from third parties in arbitration
is generally more limited than in a lawsuit.
5. Other rights that you
and/or we would have in court may not be available in arbitration. 
Any claim or dispute,
whether in contract, tort or otherwise (including any dispute over the
interpretation, scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability
of any issue), between you and us or any of our employees, agents, successors
or assigns, which arises out of or relates toa 
credit application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or
relationship arising out of this lease shall, at the election of either you or
us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration
and not by a court action. Any claim or dispute is to be arbitrated on an
individual basis and not as a class action. Whoever first demands arbitration
may choose to proceed under the applicable rules of, and be administered by,
the American Arbitration Association (www.adr.org) or any other organization
that you may choose subject to our approval. 

(Lease at p.4.)  The arbitration provision states the required
qualifications of the arbitrator, the applicable law, the payment of
arbitration fees, and that the arbitration shall be governed by the FAA.  (Id.) 

2.     
Is there an enforceable agreement to arbitrate? Is
MBUSA the intended third-party beneficiary to the Lease?
MBUSA argues it has standing to compel arbitration under the Lease
because it is a third-party beneficiary and through the principle of equitable
estoppel.  
Here, the Lease at issue was entered between Plaintiff and Mercedes
Benz of Encino.  While there appears to
be a valid agreement to arbitrate, the issue before the Court is whether MBUSA
can rely on the arbitration provision to compel arbitration.
MBUSA is not a signatory to the Lease.  This presents a problem for its election to
enforce.  For example, the Central
District Court in the case In re Toyota Motor Corp. Hybrid
Brake Marketing, Sales, Practices and Products Liability Litigation (C.D.
Cal. 2011) 828 F.Supp.2d 1150, 1159 stated: 
Toyota argues
that Plaintiffs must arbitrate their claims against Toyota because all of their
claims fall within the scope of the broadly-worded arbitration provision. (Defs.' Mem. in Supp. Mot. to Compel, at 8–9.) Toyota ignores the
plain and clear wording of the arbitration provision in the Purchase
Agreements. The arbitration provision states:
Any claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the
interpretation and scope of this clause, and the arbitrability of the claim or
dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successor or assigns,
which arise out of or relate to your credit application, purchase or condition
of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by
neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.
(Nash Agrmt., at 6;
Ramirez Agrmt, at 6 (emphasis added).) Here, the plain
language of the provision is clear that the signatories—the Nash and Ramirez
Plaintiffs and the Toyota
dealerships—may invoke their right to arbitrate any claims arising under
the Purchase Agreements. But the provision does not state that nonsignatory
third parties, such as Toyota, may arbitrate claims under the Purchase
Agreements. The Toyota dealerships have never been parties to this action.
Thus, Toyota cannot compel arbitration of Plaintiffs' claims under the
arbitration provision in the Purchase Agreements.
(In re Toyota Motor Corp.,
supra, 828 F.Supp.2d at
1159 [underline added].)  
Similar to the Toyota case, the Lease’s arbitration provision states
that “If either you [Plaintiff] or we [Mercedes-Benz of Encino] choose, any
dispute between you and us will be decided by arbitration and not in
court.”  (Lease at p.4.)  The clause does not provide for any other
non-signatory third parties with the right to enforce the clause.  
            MBUSA also argues that it is entitled to
invoke the arbitration provision because the provision states: “any resulting
transaction or relationship arising out of this lease shall, at the election of
either you or us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by a neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action.” 
(Lease at p.4.)  Even in the face
of such language, however, California state and federal courts have refused to
allow the manufacturer to invoke arbitration.  For example, in Nation v. BMW of North
America, LLC (C.D. Cal., Dec. 28, 2020) 2020 WL 7868103[1] the
District Court stated: 
As excerpted more fully above,
the contract provides that “you or I” (Nation or the seller) may compel
arbitration of any claim “between me and you or your employees, officers,
directors, affiliates, successors or assigns.” BMW NA alleges that because it
is an “assign” or “affiliate” of the auto seller, it is a third-party
beneficiary of this contract and can compel arbitration. Nation counters that
there is no evidence that either she or the auto seller intended BMW NA as a
third-party beneficiary. 
This is not the first time
that BMW NA has sought to compel arbitration as a third-party beneficiary based
upon this exact contractual language. Federal district courts in California
have decided the issue both ways. Compare Tseng v. BMW of N. Am.,
LLC, No. 2:20-cv-00256-VAP-AFMx,  2020 WL 4032305, at *4 (C.D.
Cal. Apr. 15, 2020) (BMW was an affiliate and therefore an intended
beneficiary); Phillips-Harris v. BMW of N. Am., LLC,
No. CV 20-2466-MWF (AGRx),  2020 WL 2556346, at *10 (C.D. Cal. May 20,
2020) (BMW's provision of the warranty makes it an intended third-party
beneficiary) with Schulz v. BMW of N. Am., LLC, No. 5:20-CV-01697-NC,
2020 WL 4012745, at *5 (N.D. Cal. July 15, 2020) (BMW NA was not a third-party
beneficiary because the clause at issue “refers to the subject matter of the
dispute, not to the parties involved in the dispute”).
The Court finds the reasoning
of Nation and the Schulz court more persuasive.
The reference to “assigns” upon which BMW NA hangs its hat is in the definition
of Claim: “ ‘Claim’ broadly means any claim, dispute, or controversy ...
between me and you or your employees, officers, directors, affiliates, successors
or assigns.” So far, so good, for BMW NA; the drafter of the contract evidently
intended to include BMW NA in identifying which claims could be arbitrated. But
BMW NA is not included in the class
of litigants who may compel arbitration: “Either you or I may choose to have any dispute
between us decided by arbitration and not in a court or by jury trial”
(emphasis added). BMW NA proffers no evidence to suggest that the signatories
of the contract intended to include BMW NA in the “you or I” who may compel
arbitration. As the Schulz court
found, BMW NA is therefore not an intended beneficiary of the contract, and it
may not compel arbitration on this argument.
(Nation, supra, 2020 WL 7868103 at *2–*3.)  
MBUSA is not a party defined within the “you or we” or “you or us” statements
in the arbitration provision, as that referred to Mercedes Benz of Encino and
Plaintiff. 
Further, MBUSA has not shown that it is the intended third-party
beneficiary to the Lease.  The Felisilda v. FCA US
LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 case and the cases after Felisilda are
instructive to consider.  
In Felisilda, plaintiffs purchased a
vehicle from Elk Grove Auto Group, Inc. dba Elk Grove Dodge Chrysler Jeep (“Elk
Grove Dodge”), encountered problems with the vehicle, and sued Elk Grove Dodge
and manufacturer FCA US LLC (“FCA”) for violating the Song-Beverly Act.  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
489.)  Elk Grove Dodge moved to compel
arbitration based on the agreement signed by plaintiffs, and FCA filed a notice
of non-opposition.  The trial court
ordered arbitration and plaintiffs dismissed Elk Grove Dodge.  (Id.) 
The Court of Appeal affirmed the arbitration between plaintiffs and FCA,
finding that plaintiffs’ claim against FCA was encompassed in the arbitration
provision.  The arbitration provision
stated that any claim or dispute between plaintiffs and Elk Grove Dodge (its
employees, agents, successors, or assigns) “which arises out of or relates
to … condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction
or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do
not sign this contract)” shall be subject to arbitration at a party’s
election.  (Id. at 490.)  The Court of Appeal found that the agreement
signed by plaintiffs included the arbitration of matters directly related to
the condition of the vehicle as the complaint alleged claims for violation of
express warranties, “the sales contract was the source of the warranties at the
hearing of this case,” and plaintiffs expressly agreed to arbitrate claims
arising out of the condition of the vehicle—even against third party
nonsignatories to the sales contract.  (Id.
at 496.)  Thus, the Court of Appeal found
that arbitration was proper. 
Thereafter, the Ford Motor Warranty Cases, Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 (“Ochoa”) was
decided.  There, the Court of Appeal held
that Ford could not compel arbitration based on the plaintiffs’ agreements with
the dealers that sold them the vehicles. 
(Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1329.)  The Court held that equitable estoppel did
not apply because the plaintiffs’ claims were in no way related to the
agreements and Ford was not a third-party beneficiary of the agreements as
there was no basis to conclude that the plaintiffs and their dealers entered
into the agreements with the intent of benefitting Ford.  (Id.) 
The sales contracts at issue identified the parties as the buyer/“you”
and the selling dealer as “Creditor-Seller,” “we,” or “us,” and Ford was not a
party to nor named in the sales contract. 
(Id.)  Ford argued that
equitable estoppel applied because the plaintiffs’ claims were intimately
founded in and intertwined with the underlying obligations of the sales
contracts and the sales contracts between the plaintiffs and dealers gave plaintiffs
contractual rights they now sue on—warranty claims against the
manufacturer.  (Id. at 1333.)  The Court of Appeal disagreed and declined to
follow Felisilda because the fact that the plaintiffs and dealer agreed to
arbitrate disputes did not include Ford and the plaintiffs’ breach of warranty
claims against Ford were not based on their sales contracts as warranties
accompany the sale of vehicles without regard to the sales contract’s
terms.  (Id. at 1334.)  In addressing the contract language in Felisilda,
the Court of Appeal stated: 
We do
not read this italicized language as consent by the purchaser to arbitrate
claims with third party nonsignatories. Rather, we read it as a further
delineation of the subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers
agreed to arbitrate. They agreed to arbitrate disputes “between” themselves—“you
and us”—arising out of or relating to “relationship[s],” including
“relationship[s] with third parties who [did] not sign th[e] [sale]
contract[s],” resulting from the “purchase, or condition of th[e] vehicle, [or]
th[e] [sale] contract.”
…
The “third party”
language in the arbitration clause means that if a purchaser asserts a claim
against the dealer (or its employees, agents, successors or assigns) that
relates to one of these third party transactions, the dealer can elect to
arbitrate that claim. It says nothing of binding the purchaser to arbitrate
with the universe of unnamed third parties.
(Id. at 1334-35.)  The Court of Appeal further found that
equitable estoppel did not apply because the plaintiffs’ claims were not
founded in the sales contract, but were instead based on the manufacturer’s
warranties.  (Id. at 1335.)  
            Finally, most recently, the Court of
Appeal decided Kielar v. Superior Court of Placer County (Cal. Ct. App.,
Aug. 16, 2023) 2023 WL 5270559 (certified for publication).  In this action, Kielar challenged the
superior court’s decision to grant Hyundai Motor America’s motion to compel
arbitration of his causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act.  (Kielar, supra,
2023 WL 5270559 at *1.)  The superior
court had relied on Felisilda and concluded that Hyundai, as a
nonsignatory manufacturer, could enforce the arbitration provision in the sales
contract between Kielar and his local car dealership under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel.  (Id.)  The Court of Appeal joined the recent
decisions disagreeing with Felisilda (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.
(2023 92 Cal.App.5th 958 and Ochoa, supra) and issued a preemptory writ
of mandate compelling the superior court to vacate its prior order and enter a
new order denying Hyundai’s motion.  (Id.)  In arriving at its decision, the Court of Appeal
recognized that Plaintiff’s claims did not rely on any terms of the sales
contract with the dealership t.  (Id.
at *3.)  The Court of Appeal instead
found: 
Kielar's
complaint alleges “Hyundai issued a written warranty.” This warranty was not
part of his sales contract with the dealership. Indeed, the sales contract acknowledges this separate warranty and
disclaims any implied warranties by the dealership: “If you do not get a
written warranty, and the Seller does not enter into a service contract within
90 days from the date of this contract, the Seller makes no warranties, express
or implied, on the vehicle, and there will be no implied warranties of
merchantability or of fitness for a particular purpose. [¶] This provision does
not affect any warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer
may provide.” [Footnote omitted] In Ford
Motor and Montemayor, Ford Motor Company moved to compel arbitration
of the same type of claims at issue in this proceeding based on “the same form
arbitration provision” in the plaintiffs’ sales contract with dealerships.
(Ford Motor, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1333, 306
Cal.Rptr.3d 611, rev. granted; see also Montemayor, supra,
92 Cal.App.5th at p. 968, 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 82.) These sales contracts also
included the same disclaimer regarding warranties. (Montemayor,
supra, at p. 962, 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 82; Ford Motor, supra,
at p. 1335, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611.) These authorities explained Felisilda’s statement that “the sales contract was the
source of the warranties” was flawed because “manufacturer vehicle warranties
that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the
sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale
contract.” (Ford Motor, supra, at p. 1334, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611;
accord Montemayor, supra, at p. 969, 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 82; see
also Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23
F.4th 942, 949 [“the express and implied warranties arise ‘independently of a
contract of sale’ ”].) Whether a manufacturers’ express or implied warranties
that accompany a vehicle at the time of sale constitute obligations arising from
the sale contract, permitting manufacturers to enforce an arbitration agreement
in the contract pursuant to equitable estoppel is a question now pending before
our Supreme Court. In the meantime, we agree with Montemayor and Ford Motor that they do not.
Additionally,
we agree with Montemayor and Ford Motor that the parenthetical
language in the arbitration provision referring to nonsignatory third parties
“was a ‘delineation of the subject matter of claims the purchasers and
dealers agreed to arbitrate’ ” and does not bind the purchaser “ ‘to arbitrate
with the universe of unnamed third parties.’ ” (Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th at p. 971, 310
Cal.Rptr.3d 82, quoting Ford Motor, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1335, 306 Cal.Rptr.3d 611, rev. granted.)
(Kielar,
supra, 2023 WL 5270559, at *3–4.)  
Although this Court does not find Ochoa’s
reasoning persuasive, it is bound by the holdings of the Court of Appeal in
Ochoa, Montemayor v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th
958, and most recently in Kielar. 
If ever there were an intended third-party beneficiary of a contract to
arbitrate a vehicle warranty claim, it would be the manufacturer who made the
vehicle, sold it to the dealer and who backs the dealer financially with
respect to the contract.  Likely, MBUSA itself
drafted and printed the warranty, purchase agreement and arbitration clause and
mailed it to the dealer for use in the transaction.  However, as the cases cited show, California
courts remain hostile to arbitration clauses and give them only the narrowest
possible meaning, especially in consumer transactions. While not intending to
adopt the pretzel logic of these cases as its own, the Court recognizes that it
is a mere lower court, and that as such it must follow the authority of the
Courts of Appeal, or it would needlessly delay the resolution of matters with
pointless intermediate appeals and accompanying expense and delay. 
Based on the evidence provided by MBUSA, the Court finds that there
does not exist a valid agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff and MBUSA.  In addition, the motion to compel arbitration
will not be granted based on the third-party beneficiary agreement.  As such, the motion will not be granted on
this basis. 
3.      Equitable Estoppel 
“[I]f a plaintiff relies on the terms of an agreement to assert his or her
claims against a nonsignatory defendant, the plaintiff may be equitably
estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause of that very agreement. In other words, a signatory to an agreement with an
arbitration clause cannot ‘have it both ways'; the signatory ‘cannot, on the
one hand, seek to hold the non-signatory liable pursuant to duties imposed by
the agreement, which contains an arbitration provision, but, on the other hand,
deny arbitration's applicability because the defendant is a non-signatory.’”  (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 220.)  “Under the
doctrine of equitable estoppel, as applied in both federal and California
decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause
to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of
action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined with
the underlying contract obligations.”  (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495.) 
MBUSA argues that equitable estoppel applies such
that it can compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her claims. 
The FAC alleges that
MBUSA provided express warranties that vehicle would be free of defects and
implied warranties that the vehicle was merchantable.  (FAC, ¶¶10, 18, 33.)  The three causes of action alleged against
MBUSA are based solely on the warranties provided by MBUSA and are not based on
breaches of the Lease.  (See FAC,
¶¶18-19, 34-37, 46-49.)  These alleged
breaches are separate from the Lease.  (See
Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1334 [“[M]anufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the
sale of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the sale contract between
the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the sale contract.”], 1335 [“California
law does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of
a retail sale contract as part of the sale contract.”]; see also Kramer v. Toyota Motor Corp. (9th Cir. 2013) 705
F.3d 1122, 1132 [finding that equitable estoppel did not apply, in part,
because the claims did not rely on the existence of the purchase agreement with
the arbitration agreement, but were rather the claims arose based on the
manufacturer’s independent duties owed to consumers]; see also Kielar,
supra, 2023 WL 5270559, at *3–4.)  
Again, while the warranty claims were
undoubtedly intended to be included in a clause regarding claims arising out of
the sale of an automobile, California appellate courts refuse to discern such
an intent.  To hold otherwise, would only
necessitate a pointless and expensive appeal and reversal.  
For the reasons discussed above, the motion is
denied. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

            Defendant Jones
Ontario Acquisition, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Ontario (“MBO”) moves to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to the FROG, SROG, and RPD requests. 
A.    FROG
MBO moves to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to FROG Nos. 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5,
2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 7.1,
7.2, 7.3, 8.1, 9.1, 9.2, 11.1, 11.2, 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7,
14.1 and 14.2.  MBO seeks $2,180 in
sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel. 
FROG 1.1 asks Plaintiff to
state the name, address, telephone number, and relationship to her of each
person who prepared or assisted in the preparation of the responses to the
FROGs. Plaintiff objected that the FROG was overly broad, irrelevant, and
sought confidential information that invaded her right to privacy.  FROG No. 1.1 is a standard form interrogatory
that should be answered.  Plaintiff has
not opposed the motion and has not justified her objections.  The motion is granted as to FROG No.
1.1.  
FROG Nos. 2.1- 2.3 and 2.5-2.12 ask Plaintiff for information
regarding her name and previous names (2.1); her date and place of birth (2.2);
whether she had a driver’s license and information thereto (2.3); her residence
(2.5); employment information (2.6); education information (2.7); whether she
has been convicted of a felony and information thereto (2.8); English
proficiency (2.9, 2.10); whether Plaintiff was acting as an agent/employee for
any person at the time of the incident (2.11); and whether Plaintiff had any physical,
emotional, or mental disability or condition that may have contributed to the
occurrence of the incident (2.12).  Plaintiff
objected that the FROGs were overly broad, irrelevant, sought confidential
information that invaded her right to privacy, and was overly broad in scope of
the claims/defenses in the action.  Again,
these are standard form interrogatories that should be responded to as they
seek preliminary background information about Plaintiff.  These
sets of objections are clearly “boilerplate” in nature.  Where such general “boilerplate” objections
are made, this Court has the authority to order a further response.  (See Best
Prods., Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1189.)  Further, as Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition to the motion, Plaintiff has not justified her objections.  (See Kirkland
v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98; Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  Thus, the objections are overruled.  The motion is granted as to FROG Nos. 2.1-2.3
and 2.5-2.12.  
FROG Nos. 6.1 to 6.7 ask
for information about Plaintiff’s physical, mental, or emotional injuries (No.
6.1), for Plaintiff to identify each injury and body parts affected (No. 6.2),
if she has ongoing complaints of injuries (No. 6.3), whether Plaintiff received
treatment from a healthcare provider for any injury attributed to the incident
(No. 6.4), whether Plaintiff has taken any medication (No. 6.5), whether any
other medical services were necessitated by the incident’s injuries (No. 6.6),
and whether any healthcare provider advised Plaintiff that she would need
additional treatment for injuries (No. 6.7). 
Plaintiff objected that the FROGs were overly broad, irrelevant,
sought confidential information that invaded her right to privacy, and was
overly broad in scope of the claims/defenses in the action.  If Plaintiff is claiming that the FROGs are
irrelevant because she did not suffer any physical, mental, or emotional
injuries as a result of the incident, she should state so clearly in a further
response.  The FROGs are relevant to
evaluate MBO’s scope of possible damages. 
Thus, the motion is granted as to FROG Nos. 6.1 to 6.7. 
FROG Nos. 7.1 to 7.3 ask if Plaintiff
attributes any loss of or damage to a vehicle or other property to the incident
(No. 7.1), whether a written estimate or evaluation has been made for any item
of property referred to in no. 7.1 (No. 7.2), and ether any item of property
referred to in no. 7.1 has been repaired (No. 7.3).  Plaintiff objected that the FROGs were vague
and overly broad, called for a legal conclusion, sought information protected
by the attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine, Plaintiff is not
required to perform legal research to help MBO prepare its defense, sought
irrelevant information, and were not complete in and of themselves
(subparts).  The Court overrules
Plaintiff’s objections.  The FROGs are
standard form interrogatories and are not vague, overly broad, or not complete
in and of themselves.  The FROGs do not
require Plaintiff to perform legal research on MBO’s behalf as the FROGs merely
seek factual support from Plaintiff regarding her claims for property
damage.  Finally, the attorney-client
privilege and work product doctrine are not implicated here as MBO is not
seeking protected communications or the legal theories of Plaintiff’s
counsel.  The motion is granted as to
FROG Nos. 7.1 to 7.3.  
FROG No. 8.1 asks Plaintiff
if she attributes any loss of income or earning capacity to the incident.  Plaintiff objected that the FROG was
overly broad and irrelevant, sought confidential information, Plaintiff is not
required to perform legal research to help MBO prepare its defense, and sought
irrelevant information.  For the same
reasons discussed above, the Court overrules the objections and grants the
motion as to FROG No. 8.1.  
FROG Nos. 9.1 and 9.2 asks
Plaintiff if there are any other damages attributed to the incident (9.1) and
documentary support (9.2).  FROG No.
11.1 asks if Plaintiff has in the past 10 years filed an action or made a
written claim or demand for compensation for his personal injuries.  FROG No. 11.2 asks if in the past 10
years, Plaintiff made a written claim or demand for workers’ compensation
benefits.  FROG Nos. 12.1 to 12.7 ask Plaintiff to provide information on the
investigation of the incident, such as identity of witnesses (12.1), interviews
(12.2), written/recorded statements (12.3), photographs/films/videotapes
(12.4), diagrams/reproductions/models of any places or thing (12.5), reports
(12.6), and inspections of the scene of the incident (12.7).  FROG Nos. 14.1 and 14.2 ask if
Plaintiff contends that any person involved in the incident violated any
statute, ordinance, or regulation and that the violation was a legal/proximate
cause of the incident (14.1) and whether any person was cited or charged with a
violation of any statute, ordinance, or regulation as a result of the incident
(14.2). Plaintiff objected on the similar grounds as she did to FROG Nos. 7.1
to 7.3.  For the same reasons discussed
above, the Court overrules the objections and grants the motion as to FROG Nos.
9.1-9.2, 11.1-11.2, 12.1-12.7, and 14.1-14.2. 
MBO’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses is granted as to
FROG Nos. 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.6,
2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12, 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 7.1, 7.2,
7.3, 8.1, 9.1, 9.2, 11.1, 11.2, 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.5, 12.6, 12.7, 14.1
and 14.2.  
MBO seeks $2,180 in monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record (= 6.6 hours on the motion + 4
anticipated hours for the opposition/reply and to attend the hearing at $200
hourly rate, plus $60 in filing fees). 
The Court will impose sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of
record in the amount of $1,380 (= 6.6 hours x $200/hour, plus $60 in filing
fees).  
B.     SROG
MBO moves to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to SROG Nos. 1-20.  MBO seeks $1,920 in sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel.
SROG
No. 1 asks Plaintiff if she contends
that MBO failed to use ordinary care and skill in the storage, preparing, and
repair of the subject vehicle in accordance with industry standards.  If Plaintiff responded affirmatively to SROG
No. 1, SROG No. 2 asks Plaintiff to state all facts that support her
contention, SROG No. 3 asks Plaintiff to identify all persons whom
Plaintiff believes has knowledge of MBO’s failure, and SROG No. 4 asks
Plaintiff to identify with particularity all documents which support her
contention.  
Plaintiff
objected to the SROGs on the grounds that they were vague, overly broad, and
duplicative/burdensome/harassing; called for a legal conclusion; sought
information that was protected by the attorney-client privilege and work
product doctrine; sought information that was equally or readily available to
MBO; sought legal reasoning and theories whereupon Plaintiff is not required to
help prepare MBO’s case or perform legal research on its behalf; and were not
full and complete in and of itself.  The
Court overrules the objections.  The
SROGs seek relevant information as they seek factual support for the
allegations that Plaintiff made in her complaint (paragraphs 61-63).  Further, MBO is not requiring Plaintiff to
perform legal research or prepare MBO’s case, but instead is seeking discovery
of Plaintiff’s claims and the facts she contends supports her claims and
allegations—all of which are relevant to MBO’s understanding of Plaintiff’s
action and relevant to MBO’s defenses.  The
claims of privilege also lack merit.  The
motion is granted as to SROG Nos. 1-2.  
The remaining SROGs follow the same pattern and Plaintiff objects
in nearly the same fashion as the above. 

·        
SROG No. 5
asks Plaintiff if she contends that MBO breached its duty to use ordinary care
and skill in the storage, preparation, and repair of the subject vehicle, in
accordance with industry standards.  SROG
Nos. 6-8 asks Plaintiff to state all facts that support her contention, to
identify all persons, and identify all documents.  
·        
SROG No. 9
asks Plaintiff if she contends that MBO negligently performed the service of storing,
preparing, and repairing the subject vehicle. 
SROG Nos. 10-12 asks Plaintiff to state all facts that support
her contention, to identify all persons, and identify all documents.  
·        
SROG No. 13
asks Plaintiff if she contends that she sustained damages as a result of MBO’s
negligence.  SROG Nos. 14-16 asks
Plaintiff to state all facts that support her contention, to identify all
persons, and identify all documents.  
·        
SROG No. 17
asks Plaintiff if she contends that the repair work undertaken by MBO was other
than pursuant to the subject vehicle’s manufacturer’s warranty.  SROG Nos. 18-20 asks Plaintiff to
state all facts that support her contention, to identify all persons, and
identify all documents.  
For the same reasons
discussed above, the Court grants the motion as to SROG Nos. 5-20.  
MBO seeks $1,920
in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record (= 5.3 hours on
the motion + 4 anticipated hours for the opposition/reply and to attend the
hearing at $200 hourly rate, plus $60 in filing fees).  The Court will impose sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record in the amount of $1,120 (= 5.3 hours x
$200/hour, plus $60 in filing fees).  
C.     RPD
MBO moves to compel Plaintiff’s further
responses to RPD Nos. 1-13.  MBO seeks $1,840 in sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel.
            RPD
No. 1 asks Plaintiff to produce all documents evidencing any written and/or
oral communications between Plaintiff and MBO from January 25, 2021 to the
present.  RPD No. 2 asks Plaintiff to
produce all documents evidencing any written and/or oral communications between
Plaintiff and MBUSA from January 25, 2021 to the present.  Plaintiff
objected to the RPDs on the grounds that they were vague, overly broad, and
irrelevant; called for a legal conclusion; sought information that was
protected by the attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine; sought
information that was equally or readily available to MBO; and sought legal
reasoning and theories whereupon Plaintiff is not required to help prepare
MBO’s case or perform legal research on its behalf.  MBO argues that the documents sought are
necessary to help prepare its defense and evaluate Plaintiff’s claims regarding
MBO’s repair work and MBUSA’s express contractual duties owed to
Plaintiff.  MBO argues that there would
be no privileged documents between Plaintiff and MBO since MBO was a party to
the communications it is seeking. 
Further, it argues that the information about MBUSA would not be equally
available to MBO, plus such communications would not be privileged as they were
disclosed to MBUSA (who is not a client of Plaintiff’s counsel).  The Court overrules the objections as the
RPDs seeks relevant information within a limited time scope.  The motion is granted as to RPD Nos.
1-2.  
            RPD
Nos. 3-5 ask Plaintiff to produce all documents reflecting the maintenance,
servicing, and repairs (including attempted and failed repairs) of the subject
vehicle from the date of her acquisition to the present.  RPD No. 6 asks Plaintiff to produce
all documents reflecting the inspection of the subject vehicle by any
automotive service facility, whether or not any service, maintenance, or
repairs were completed, from the date of her acquisition to the present.  RPD Nos. 7-8 ask Plaintiff to produce
all repair orders and/or invoices she was provided regarding the subject
vehicle from MBO or any automotive service facility.  Plaintiff objected to these RPDs on the same
grounds above.  The objections are
boilerplate in nature and have not been justified by Plaintiff, as no
opposition brief has been filed. 
Further, the documents sought are relevant to this action as they seek
documentary support for Plaintiff’s claims regarding MBO’s purported negligent
repair, maintenance, and servicing of the subject vehicle and any past to
current repairs performed on the vehicle. 
Thus, the motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 3-8.
            RPD No. 9 asks Plaintiff to
produce all documents reflecting her acquisition of the subject vehicle,
including but not limited to the Retail Sale or Lease Agreement.   Plaintiff objected to this RPD.  The Sale/Lease Agreement is not a privileged
document.  Further, the document is
relevant to the action as this action involves the subject vehicle and
potentially the terms of the agreement, which may lay out the parties’ obligations
for repair and maintenance of the vehicle. 
The motion is granted as to RPD No. 9. 
            RPD
No. 10 asks Plaintiff to produce
all documents evidencing that MBO breached its duty to Plaintiff to use
ordinary care and skill by failing to properly store, prepare, and repair the
subject vehicle as alleged in paragraph 62 of the complaint.  RPD
No. 11 asks Plaintiff to produce
all documents that reflect the damages caused to Plaintiff by MBO’s
conduct.   Plaintiff objected on the same grounds as
above.  The documents sought are relevant
to this action as MBO seeks documents that support Plaintiff’s allegations in
the complaint and claim for damages.  The
documents should be produced.  The motion
is granted as to RPD Nos. 10-11.  
            RPD Nos. 12 and 13 ask Plaintiff to produce documents which Plaintiff
identified in response to the FROG and SROG requests.  Again, Plaintiff objected on the same grounds
above.  The Court will order the
documents to be produced.  The motion is
granted as to RPD Nos. 12-13.  
MBO seeks $1,840
in
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record (= 4.9 hours on
the motion + 4 anticipated hours for the opposition/reply and to attend the
hearing at $200 hourly rate, plus $60 in filing fees).  The Court will impose sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record in the amount of $1,030 (= 4.9 hours x
$200/hour, plus $60 in filing fees).  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s motion to
compel Plaintiff to arbitration and stay the action is denied. 
Defendant Jones
Ontario Acquisition, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Ontario’s motion to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to the Form Interrogatories is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide further
responses within 20 days of notice of this order.  Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,380 to Defendant, by and
through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendant Jones
Ontario Acquisition, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Ontario’s motion to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to the Special Interrogatories is granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide further
responses within 20 days of notice of this order.  Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,120 to Defendant, by and
through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendant Jones
Ontario Acquisition, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Ontario’s motion to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to the Request for Production of Documents is
granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide
further responses within 20 days of notice of this order.  Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,030 to Defendant, by and
through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendant shall provide notice of this order.

 
 

