 Case Number:  23BBCV01131    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Tania murrieta, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
american honda
  motor co., inc.,
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01131
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 6, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Tania Murrieta and Jose
Murrieta Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on October 15, 2018, they purchased
a new 2019 Honda Odyssey.  They allege
they entered into an express written contract with Defendant American Honda
Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”), referred to as the New Vehicle Limited
Warranty.  Plaintiff alleges that the
transmission was defective.  They allege
that they hereby revoke acceptance of the subject vehicle by contacting
Defendant and demanding that the vehicle be repurchased pursuant to the
Song-Beverly Act. 
The complaint, filed May 19, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty; and (2) fraudulent inducement – concealment.    
B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On July 26, 2023, Defendant filed a
demurrer to the 2nd cause of action in the complaint and a motion to
strike portions of the complaint. 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
request for judicial notice in support of the opposition to the demurrer. 
On September 29, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
OPPOSITION
PAPERS
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes
that Plaintiff only filed a request for judicial notice as the sole opposition
paper.  It appears that more substantive
oppositions were served on Defendant as Defendant filed substantive
reply arguments in its briefs.  (For
example, the reply at page 2 states in heading II.A “Plaintiff’s Opposition
Relies Heavily on Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. Regarding Sufficiency Of The
Pleadings And The Economic Less Doctrine….”) However, the Court is not in
receipt of any memorandums of points and authorities in support of oppositions
to the demurrer and motion to strike.  
Thus, the Court will continue the hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike so that Plaintiff can file with the Court
the full opposition papers for the Court’s consideration.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s demurrer and motion to strike the allegations is
continued to October 13, 2023 at 8:30 a.m. 
Plaintiff is ordered to file the opposition papers, no later than the
end of the business day by October 9, 2023. 
No further briefing shall be permitted. 

Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 