 Case Number:  23BBCV00048    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
seda kangani
  rashidi,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
state farm
  general insurance company, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00048
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 6, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer; motion to strike 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Seda
Kangani Rashidi (“Plaintiff”) is alleged to be the owner of the rental property
located at 3755 Mound View, Studio City, California 91604.  This action arises out of an insurance claim
made by Plaintiff resulting from water loss to the property, which occurred on
January 8, 2021, when rainwater entered through the roof of the subject
property causing significant damage.  Plaintiff
alleges that she had an insurance policy with Defendant State Farm General
Insurance Company (“Defendant”) and that the water loss was covered under the
subject policy.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant failed to fully pay monies due under the policy and eventually
stopped communications with her.  
The first
amended complaint (“FAC”), filed May 16, 2023, alleges causes of action for:
(1) breach of contract; (2) breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing – bad
faith; and (3) financial elder abuse. 
B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On June 15, 2023,
Defendant filed a demurrer and a motion to strike portions of the FAC. 
On September 25,
2023, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs.
On September 29,
2023, Defendant filed reply briefs. 
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Defendant
demurs to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action in the FAC on
the grounds that they fail to allege sufficient facts against it.  
A.   
 2nd
cause of action for breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing – bad faith  
“The law
implies in every contract, including insurance policies, a covenant of good
faith and fair dealing. The implied promise requires each contracting party to
refrain from doing anything to injure the right of the other to receive the
agreement's benefits. To fulfill its implied obligation, an insurer must give
at least as much consideration to the interests of the insured as it gives to
its own interests. When the insurer unreasonably and in bad faith withholds
payment of the claim of its insured, it is subject to liability in tort.”  (Maslo v. Ameriprise Auto &
Home Ins. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 626, 633 [internal quotation marks
omitted].)  A breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the
contractual duty itself; further, bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than
mistaken judgment.  (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.)  
“[T]here are
at least two separate requirements to establish breach of the implied covenant:
(1) benefits due under the policy must have been withheld; and (2) the reason
for withholding benefits must have been unreasonable or without proper
cause.”  (Love
v. Fire Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151.)  “It is now
clear under California law that an insurer's erroneous failure to pay benefits
under a policy does not necessarily constitute bad faith entitling the insured
to recover tort damages.”  (Opsal v. United Services Auto. Assn. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 1197, 1205.)  The ultimate test
of bad faith liability in first party cases is “whether the
refusal to pay policy benefits was unreasonable” or “without proper
cause.”  (Id.)  
In the 2nd cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that the insurance policy contained the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
(FAC, ¶89.)  Plaintiff alleges
that additional payments should have been made by Defendant to Plaintiff in
relation to the claim, but Defendant failed to accurately investigate and
adjust the claim, stopped all communications with Plaintiff, underpaid the
claim, and caused unreasonable delays in resolving the claim, thereby breaching
the implied covenant.  (Id.,
¶90.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
engaged in a course of conduct to further its economic interest in violation of
its obligations to Plaintiff, such as failing to thoroughly and objectively
investigate the claims, refusing to pay significant insurance benefits that
Plaintiff was entitled to receive, failing to carefully review and consider the
facts and circumstances of the claim, delaying and refusing payment, not
attempting in good faith to effectuate a fair settlement of the claim, failing
to produce claim-related documents when requested, failing to respond to
inquiries made by Plaintiff within 15 calendar days, failing to adopt
reasonable standards for investigating and processing the claim, handling the
claim in a biased manner, stopping communications with Plaintiff, causing
looters and vandals to enter the property, ignoring phone calls and messages,
and retaining biased vendors to prepare repair estimates.  (Id., ¶92.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s conduct
was a part of its overall scheme to reduce the cost of legitimate insurance
claims.  (Id., ¶94.)  
Defendant demurs to the bad
faith claim, arguing that the FAC alleges that it paid almost $300,000 in
benefits to Plaintiff and that it is entitled to conduct its own investigations
to fully evaluate claims and pay only those claims that are due under the
policy.  Defendant argues that it did not
act in a dilatory manner because the allegations show that Plaintiff’s counsel
caused some delays by waiting to send documents, Defendant had several
personnel changes and was reviewing Plaintiff’s claim (FAC ¶¶35-36, 63, 69,
71), and Defendant did respond to Plaintiff’s communications within a
reasonable timeframe (FAC ¶¶15, 22, 26, 29, 34, 37, 43, 45, 46, 548, 50-53,
57-62, 64-68, 70-73).  
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that she has alleged facts regarding the benefits withheld (FAC ¶¶83-84)
and that this withholding was unreasonable or without proper cause (FAC ¶¶74-77,
92).  Plaintiff argues that she has
alleged facts such as in paragraph 60 that show that Defendant required its own
consultants to write repair estimates using Defendant’s guidelines instead of
industry standards that may require other/additional repair methods, which
constituted a conflict of interest and perpetuate Defendant’s financial
gain.  
At the pleading stage, the
Court accepts the truth of the allegations as pleaded in the FAC.  While the refusal to pay policy benefits in
itself is not sufficient to make a finding of bad faith, the Court finds that the
allegations regarding the “unreasonableness” of Defendant’s failure to make
payments adequate at the demurrer stage. 
Taking together Plaintiff’s allegations regarding the delays in
communication and/or payment, the failure to make proper investigation, as well
as requiring different repair estimates, etc., with Plaintiff’s allegations
that Defendant’s actions were performed with the intent to pay significantly
less insurance benefits and to pursue its own financial gain are sufficient to
allege bad faith.  However, whether
Plaintiff can prove these allegations with evidence will have to be determined
beyond the pleading stage.   
The demurrer to the 2nd
cause of action is overruled.  
B.    
3rd cause of action for financial elder
abuse 
Welfare
& Institutions Code, § 15610.30 states in relevant part: 
(a) “Financial abuse” of an elder or
dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any of the following:
(1) Takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult
for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud,
or both.
(2) Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating,
obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent
adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(3) Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or
retains, or assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or
retaining, real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult by undue
influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
(b) A person or entity shall be deemed to have taken,
secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained property for a wrongful use if,
among other things, the person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains the property and the person or entity knew or should have
known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent
adult.
(c) For purposes of this
section, a person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains
real or personal property when an elder or dependent adult is deprived of any
property right, including by means of an agreement, donative transfer, or
testamentary bequest, regardless of whether the property is held directly or by
a representative of an elder or dependent adult.
(Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30(a)-(c).)  
            In
the 3rd cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that she is and was an elder
(born in 1952) at the time Defendant wrongfully denied her claim.  (FAC, ¶102.) 
She alleges that she had a vested property right to money and benefits
triggered under the policy at the time of loss, but Defendant deprived her of
her contractual rights to benefits due under the policy with the intent to
deprive her.  (Id.,
¶¶103-105.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant committed
financial elder abuse when it took policy premiums from Plaintiff with no
intent to fully pay benefits, Defendant had knowledge that she was an elder
through the application process and company records, it intentionally denied
the loss altogether, and it wrongfully retained policy benefits by delaying and
denying Plaintiff payments for her claim. 
(Id., ¶106.)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant knew or should have known its conduct was directed to an
elder/Plaintiff that that it deliberately disregarded the high degree of
probability of injuring her.  (Id.,
¶¶107-108.) 
            Defendant
argues that the FAC lacks allegations that it knew that Plaintiff was an
elder.  However, paragraph 106 alleges
that Defendant knew through the insurance application process and internal
company records that Plaintiff was an elder. 
(FAC, ¶106(b), 107.)  At the
pleading stage, the Court takes these facts as true. 
            Defendant
also argues that disputes over the terms of a contract do not amount to
financial elder abuse.  (See Stebley
v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP (2011) 202
Cal.App.4th 522, 528 [finding that there was no “wrongful use” of property for
a financial elder abuse claim because “[i]t is simply not tortious for a
commercial lender to lend money, take collateral, or to foreclose on collateral
when a debt is not paid.... [A] commercial lender is privileged to pursue its
own economic interests and may properly assert its contractual rights.”]; (Paslay v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 639, 657 [finding that insurer’s incorrect denial of policy funds
did not constitute a “wrongful use” of funds for elder abuse where there was a
genuine dispute], 658 [stating that “wrongful conduct [under section 15610.30] occurs
only when the party who violates the contract actually knows that it is
engaging in a harmful breach, or reasonably should be aware of the harmful
breach.”].)  In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that she has alleged facts showing that Defendant wrongfully retained
policy benefits by delaying and denying payment to Plaintiff.  
            Similar
to the discussion above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
facts for a financial elder abuse claim. 
While Defendant claims there was a genuine dispute over the terms of the
insurance policy terms, this is a defense that is better raised when the
parties can present evidence and this Court can consider the evidence.  At the pleading stage, the Court considers
Plaintiff’s allegations as true and disregards extrinsic facts/evidence.  Again, whether Plaintiff can prove the
elements of financial elder abuse through the presentation of evidence will
have to be determined beyond the pleading stage. 
            The
demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is overruled.  
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant moves to strike the allegations
for punitive damages.  
A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Further, when the punitive damages are sought against
an employer, Civil Code § 3294(b) requires the plaintiff to establish the
following:
(1)  
the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized,
(2)  
the
employer ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded, or
(3)  
the
employer was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
The Court has reviewed the allegations of the FAC and
the specific allegations for punitive damages. 
At most, the allegations are conclusory that Defendant acted
intentionally, maliciously, oppressively, or fraudulently.  While Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
intended to delay or deny paying policy benefits to Plaintiff, the allegations
do not rise to a specific showing that Defendant’s conduct was malicious,
oppressive, or fraudulent.  
In
addition, allegations using the “buzz words” from section 3294 are not
sufficient.  “To support
punitive damages, the complaint asserting one of those causes of action must
allege ultimate facts of the defendant's oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Cyrus
v. Haveson (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 306, 316-17.)  For example, the
complaint in Brousseau v. Jarrett, which the court held was “a patently
insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied’”,
as it stated:
Defendant
engaged in the conduct described in the second count ‘intentionally, wilfully,
fraudulently, and with a wanton, reckless disregard for the possible injuries
[sic] consequences ... and as a result of ... said intentional, wilful, wanton,
reckless, oppressive, and fraudulent conduct, plaintiff is entitled to
exemplary damages. . . .
(Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 869 & 872.)  
Thus, the Court will grant the motion to strike the
allegations for punitive damages with leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant
State Farm General Insurance Company’s demurrer is overruled as to the 2nd
and 3rd causes of action in the First Amended Complaint. 
Defendant’s
motion to strike allegations for punitive damages is granted with 20 days leave
to amend.  
Defendant
shall
give notice of this order.  
 
