 Case Number:  23VECV00760    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  W LILACH
BASSON, ET AL. V. KRYSTAL BURNS, ET AL.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTIONS TO COMEPL FURTHER DISCOVERY 
 
Date of Hearing:        May
6, 2024                                                   Trial Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        23VECV00760
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs
Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi 
Responding Party:     Defendants
Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 17, 2023,
Plaintiffs Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi, a minor by his
Guardian Ad Litem Lilach Basson, filed a complaint against Defendants Krystal
Burns, Norma Burns, and Glory Project LLC for assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress,
and interference with tenancy. Plaintiff Yacov leases property from Defendant
Glory Project, LLC. Plaintiff Lilach Basson alleges when she was visiting her
husband’s office with Noam, their son, Basson was physically and verbally
attacked by Defendants Norma and Krystal Burns. Defendant Krystal Burns manages
the property. 
 
Default was entered against
Defendant Norma Burns on April 13, 2023. On April 24, 2023, default was entered
against Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC. The court set aside the
default entered against Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC on June
22, 2023. On December 11, 2023, the court set aside the default against Norma
Burns. 
 
On January 25, 2024,
Krystal and Norma Burns filed a cross-complaint against Yacov Serazi and Lilach
Basson for trespass, assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, negligence, breach of contract, and elder abuse. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
I.                   
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Compelling Defendant Krystal
Burns’ Further Response to Demand for Production and Inspection is GRANTED
II.                 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Compelling Defendant Krystal
Burns’ Further Response to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED
III.               
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Compelling Responses by Defendant
Norma Burns to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production is GRANTED
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT KRYSTAL
BURNS’ FURTHER RESPONSE TO DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION AND INSPECTION
 
Plaintiff Lilach Basson moves this court for an order
compelling Defendant/Cross-Complainant Krystal Burns to serve adequate
responses and withdraw objections to Plaintiff’s Request for Production and
Inspection of Documents, Set Two. Plaintiff also moves for an order requiring
Krystal Burns and her attorneys, Daniel Wolfberg, Diana Rivera, and the law
firm of Tharpe & Howell, LLP to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of
$8,700.00. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (CCP § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the motion to show that the material
sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify
discovery where specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for
effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated
Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588.)
 
Plaintiff argues Krystal Bums did not provide a statement of
compliance as required by Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310(a) in response to
Plaintiff’s second set of requests for production of documents and each of her
28 objections was based upon the grounds the requests were “vague, ambiguous,
and unintelligible”. Plaintiff contends the discovery plaintiff Lilach Basson
served on Krystal Burns was narrow, relevant to the subject matter, and not
privileged as the request only sought documents that related directly to any
affirmative defense Krystal Burns raised or any allegation she raised in her
cross-complaint.

In opposition, Defendant Krystal Burns first argues there
was no proper meet and confer. Defendant Krystal Burns contends Plaintiff filed
the motion nine days after receiving Defendant’s responses, which indicates a
lack of good faith and constitutes an abuse of discovery. 
 
Plaintiff has provided a declaration of their meet and
confer efforts along with the correspondence between counsel. While the two
dispute whether this was sufficient, the court the correspondence makes clear
that the parties have reached an impasse as to this issue, the court will
address the motion on its merits.  (See Volkswagenwerk
Aktiengesellschaft v. Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326,
332.)   
 
Defendant Krystal Burns opposes the motion on the grounds the
discovery responses Plaintiff complains of were the result of discovery
directed to Krystal Burns, as opposed to Defendant Krystal Burns or Cross-Complainant
Krystal Burns. Defendant Burns has two separate counsel (one to defend and the
other to pursue the cross-complaint) and reasonably asserted objections to
discovery because Plaintiff did not identify Krystal Burns as either
Cross-complainant or Defendant. Moreover, the allegations that Defendant Krystal
Burns failed to make proper statements of compliance is incorrect. In response
to Plaintiff Basson’s Demand for Production of Documents, Krystal Burns clearly
stated that all responsive documents within her possession, custody or control
were already produced.  
 
The court finds the responses are not code compliant.
Regardless of whether Krystal Burns was in the middle of obtaining new counsel
for their cross-complaint, Krystal Burns was properly served discovery and has
the capacity to respond to discovery regarding her cross-complaint and
affirmative defenses. It is the party who responds, not their attorney. Moreover,
the requests are not vague, ambiguous and unintelligible as they are clearly in
regards to either Krystal Burns’ allegations in her cross-complaint or her
affirmative defenses to Plaintiffs’ complaint and reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. As for Defendant’s contention they
have produced all responsive documents in their possession, the parties need to
work together to confirm what has been produced and what has not. Lastly,
Burns’ objection “All proposed denials and affirmative defenses were
protectively pled pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30. Discovery
has just begun in this matter and Responding Party (GLORY PROJECT LLC) has
limited facts at this time on which to base all denials or affirmative
defenses” is a proper objection. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $8,700.00
against Krystal Burns and her attorneys Daniel Wolfberg, Diana Rivera and the
law firm of Tharpe & Howell, LLP on the grounds Krystal Burns and her
attorneys have displayed contempt for the discovery process and have obstructed
and frustrated Plaintiffs’ counsel at every opportunity to obtain legitimate
discovery. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the motion is without merit
and brought without substantial justification. The discovery served by
Plaintiff is confusing as to whether directed to Defendant or
Cross-complainant. Plaintiff’s counsel stated no further extensions would be
granted, so Responding Party supplied as much information as possible when the
responses to Plaintiff’s to the discovery were made. 

The court finds sanctions warranted in the reduced amount of
$3,000.00. This includes Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
special interrogatories, discussed below. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT KRYSTAL
BURNS’ FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES 
 
Plaintiff Lilach Basson moves this court for an order
compelling Defendant/Cross-Complainant Krystal Burns to serve further responses
a to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff also moves for an
order requiring Krystal Burns and her attorneys, Daniel Wolfberg, Diana Rivera,
and the law firm of Tharpe & Howell, LLP to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $7,850.00. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to form or specially
prepared interrogatories may be brought if the responses contain: (1) answers
that are evasive or incomplete; (2) an unwarranted or insufficiently specific
exercise of an option to produce documents in lieu of a substantive response;
or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (CCP § 2030.300(a).)    
 
The parties make the same arguments as above. Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s special
interrogatories is GRANTED. The request for sanctions is granted, but reduced
and included in the amount set forth above. 
 
 
III.               
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING RESPONSE BY NORMA
BURNS TO DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff requests an order compelling Defendant Norma Burns
to respond to Plaintiff’s Request for Production and Inspection of Documents,
Set One for Norma Burns failure to timely respond. Plaintiff also requests
sanctions against Norma Burns and her attorney of record, Chritopher J. Lauria
to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,700.00. 
 
Where a
party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make
an order compelling responses. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300, 2033.280; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve a timely response to the
discovery request waives any objection to the request, including one based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (CCP §§2030.290(a),
2031.300(a), 2033.280(a); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 404.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.010,
the propounding party may also move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (CCP § 2033.280(b).)
 
On January 26, 2024 plaintiff Lilach Basson served a Request
for Production and Inspection of Documents on Norma Burns. (Klein Decl. ¶8,
Exh. 2.) On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel granted Normal Burns’ new
counsel an extension to respond to this discovery to March 12, 2024. (Klein
Decl. ¶¶9-10, Exhs. 3, 4.) Norma Burns never responded to the Request for
Production and Inspection of Documents and Norma Burns’ counsel failed to
appear at the trial setting conference. (Klein Decl. ¶¶11, 12.) The motion is
unopposed. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling
responses by Norma Burns to Plaintiff’s Demand for Production is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
The court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the
reduced amount of $1,500.00. 