  Case Number:  22VECV01618    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  W WILMA PONY vs
WESTFIELD LLC
 
DEFENDANT universal protection
services, lp’s motion for relief from waiver of objections
            
Date of Hearing:          May 6, 2024                                        Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:               W                                                         Case No.:         22VECV01618
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Universal
Protection Services LP 
Responding Party:       Plaintiff Wilma Pony 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 17, 2022, Plaintiff Wilma Pony filed a complaint
against Defendant Westfield LLC for negligence and premises liability.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Westfield negligently maintained and owned certain
property in Canoga Park, which created a dangerous condition on the floor of
the subject premises. As a result, Plaintiff slipped and fell when she
encountered the dangerous condition.  On
August 1, 2023, Plaintiff named Universal Protection Service, LP as DOE 1. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant UPS’ Motions for Relief from Waiver of Objections
to Plaintiff’s Special and Form Interrogatories, Set One, Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, and Requests for Admissions, Set One is
GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Universal Protection Services LP (“UPS”) moves the
court for an order granting it relief from the waiver of objections to Set One
of Special and Form Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents, and
Request for Admissions propounded by Plaintiff Wilma Pony. Defendant UPS makes
the motion on the grounds that they have subsequently served responses that are
in substantial compliance with the Codes of Civil Procedure and Defendant’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence or
excusable neglect. 
 
A respondent that misses the 30-day deadline for answering
interrogatories, inspection demands, or requests for admission waives all
objections to said discovery requests, including objections based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.¿(CCP §§ 2030.290(a), 2031.300(a),
2033.280(a).) However, on motion, the judge may¿set¿aside¿waivers to
interrogatories, inspection demands, and/or requests for admission:¿ (1) if the
respondent has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance
with¿the relevant Code of Civil Procedure section for the particular discovery
request/procedure; and¿ (2) if the respondent failed to serve a timely response
because of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿(Id. §§
2030.290(a), 2031.300(a), 2033.280(a).) 
 
UPS seeks relief from waiver of discovery objections. On
October 4, 2023, Plaintiff served a full set of written discovery on UPS,
including a first set of Special Interrogatories, Form Interrogatories, Requests
for Production of Documents, and Requests for Admission. (Marcoly Decl. ¶6.)
However, UPS was unable to serve discovery responses at that time due to
unforeseeable, extenuating circumstances including severe staffing shortages
during the last few months of 2023 at UPS’ counsel’s law firm. (Marcoly Decl.
¶6.) On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff granted an extension to provide those
responses by November 21, 2023. (Marcoly Decl. ¶7.) On February 28, 2024,
counsel for UPS in this action, spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel on the phone
regarding UPS’ responses. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.) Mr. Marcoly explained that the
responses were due prior to his time with UPS’ counsel’s law firm and that he
understood that the law firm had been enduring staffing challenges at the time
the responses were due. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.) 
The supervising attorney on the file mistakenly believed that the
previously handling attorney on this file had timely served responses to the written
discovery in question last year. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.) The unintended lapse in
responding to the discovery prior to Mr. Marcoly taking over this file were due
to numerous medical and maternity leaves of absence at the firm as well as some
recent attrition, constituting a severe shortage of attorneys who could take
over this file and other files. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.)  UPS requested that Plaintiff provide an
extension to serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s first set of written
discovery, including objections. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.) Although Plaintiff granted
UPS an extension up to March 13, 2024 to serve verified responses to the
outstanding discovery, Plaintiff refused to agree that objections to the
discovery requests were not waived. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.) ON March 7, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel advised that if verified responses to the discovery at issue are not
served by March 13, 2024 without objections, Plaintiff would file a Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses. (Marcoly Decl. ¶9.) On March 19, 2024, UPS served
verified responses to Plaintiff’s first set of written discovery, with
objections. (Marcoly Decl. ¶10.) Because Plaintiff insists that UPS waive its
objections to the subject written discovery, UPS has no alternative but to file
the instant Motion seeking relief from waiver. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant has deprived them
of valuable time and resources all because Defendant failed to provide any
response to Plaintiff’s discovery. Plaintiff contends while they are
sympathetic towards Defendant’s office affairs, this should not serve as the
foundation as to why serving discovery responses six months late should be
deemed as “inadvertence or excusable neglect”. Moreover, despite Defendant’s
claim that their responses are in substantial compliance, they are not.
 
The court finds UPS has sufficiently demonstrated mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (See Solv-All v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1010 holding the client should be entitled to
relief if the attorney admits that the inaction was his responsibility.) Mr.
Marcoly, under penalty of perjury, testifies the supervising attorney on the
file mistakenly believed that the previously handling attorney on this file had
timely served responses to the written discovery in question last year. (Marcoly
Decl. ¶8.) This lapse occurred due to numerous medical and maternity leaves of
absence at the firm as well as recent attrition. (Marcoly Decl. ¶8.) Moreover,
the responses being served six months after the original due date does not
constitute an inexcusable mistake and Mr. Marcoly testifies it was only from
February 28, 2024 on did they realize no discovery responses had been provided
since the November 7, 2023 extension. (Marcoly Decl. ¶7, 8.) Moreover, the
court finds Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by UPS asserting objections to the
discovery. The parties are still exchanging written discovery and several
depositions must still be noticed and taken. Lastly, Defendant’s responses to
the discovery demands appear to be complete and substantially code compliant. If
Plaintiff takes issue with the discovery responses, Plaintiff may file a motion
to compel further responses. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant UPS’ Motions for Relief from Waiver
of Objections to Plaintiff’s Special and Form Interrogatories, Set One,
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Requests for Admissions, Set
One is GRANTED. 
 