 Case Number:  23STCV01110    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KAREN FLORES, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EVERBRANDS, INC., a California corporation; EVERBRANDS,
  INC., a Delaware corporation; MICHAEL FLORMAN, an Individual; YON LAI, an Individual;
  and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV01110
 Hearing Date:   11/13/23
 Trial Date:        9/3/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Karen
  Flores’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Admissions, Set 1,
  and Request for Sanctions.



 
Background
Plaintiff Karen Flores (Plaintiff)
sues Defendants Everbrands, Inc., a California Corporation (Everbrands CA),
Everbrands, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (Everbrands DE) (collectively,
Everbrands, Inc.), Michael Florman (Florman), Yon Lai (Lai), and Does 1-25
pursuant to a January 18, 2023 Complaint alleging claims of (1) Failure to Pay
a Minimum Wage, (2) Failure to Pay Overtime, (3) Failure to Provide rest
Breaks, (4) Failure to Provide Meal Breaks, (5) Inaccurate Wage Statements, (6)
Waiting Wage Penalties (Cal. Labor Code §§ 201-203), (7) Unfair Competition and
Unlawful Business Practices – (Cal. Bus. Code § 17200), and (8) Failure to
Provide Records. 
The claims arise from allegations
that when Plaintiff was employed by Defendants, she was paid less than the
applicable minimum wage, was not compensated for overtime, and was not
compensated for and/or provided meal and rest breaks.
On July 24, 2023, Plaintiff served
Requests for Admission (RFAs), Set One, on Defendant Everbrands CA. The RFAs
were served on Allyson K. Thompson, Esq., and Laura P. Birnbaum, Esq.,
Plaintiff’s counsel.
On September 11, 2023, after a
continuance by Plaintiff, Everbrands CA served responses to RFAs, Set One, as
verified by Defendant Florman.
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed a meet and confer letter regarding further responses to the
RFAs. The email was sent to Ms. Thompson and to Carmen Dilks, Ms. Thompson’s
secretary.
By October 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel had not received supplemental responses to discovery or a response to
the September 19th meet and confer email and attached letter.
That same day, Plaintiff Flores
filed a motion to compel further responses to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 23-24. The
motion also seeks monetary sanctions against Everbrands CA and Ms. Thompson.
On October 30, 2023, Everbrands CA
opposed the motion, which attaches declarations from Ms. Thompson and Ms.
Birnbaum, who explain their respective, purportedly inadvertent failure to
respond to the sole meet and confer effort by Plaintiff’s counsel or to provide
supplemental responses to these RFAs. The motion also argues that this motion
will be mooted by service of supplemental responses by the date of this
hearing.
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff
Flores replied to the opposition.
Plaintiff Flores’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Reply Objections to Thompson
Declaration
Objections to Thompson Declaration,
¶¶ 2, 4, 8.
Objections to Thompson Declaration,
¶ 5.
 
Motion to Compel Further Admission Responses

Guidelines
for Civility
The
Court notes that it understands Plaintiff Flores’s counsel’s frustration with
Defendants in relation to the discovery process and to this litigation
generally. (Reply, pp. 1-3.)
However,
the Court reminds counsel that the Local Rules of this Court explicitly provide
that “[n]either written submissions nor oral presentations should disparage the
intelligence, ethics, morals, integrity or personal behavior of one’s
adversaries, unless such things are directly and necessarily in issue.” (Super.
Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, appen. 3.A., subd. (c)(2); see Reply, pp. 1-3
[characterizing arguments and representations in opposition as “asinine” and
flippantly responding “blah blah blah” and “so what?” to arguments in
opposition].) 
The
characterization and words used to describe the alleged conduct of Everbrands
CA’s counsel is not proper. Attorney Shirdel is admonished to comply with the guidelines
for civility. 
Meet
and Confer
A
motion to compel further admission responses must be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).) A meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.040.)
If
the party or attorney made no effort to resolve the discovery dispute
informally, it is considered an egregious violation of the meet-and-confer
requirement, and the court can deny the motion to compel without any further
attempts to secure an informal resolution by the parties. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 433-434.) If the effort to
meet and confer was merely inadequate, a court should consider giving the
moving party another opportunity to meet the requirement before denying the
motion to compel. (Id. at 434-435; see Volkswagenwerk A.G. v.
Superior Court (1981) 122 Cal.App.3d 326, 331-332.) In determining whether
the failure to meet and confer was egregious or merely inadequate, the court
should consider eleven factors set out in Obregon, supra, 67
Cal.App.4th at p. 345.
Here,
the parties dispute whether a single email, emailed to Ms. Thompson and Ms.
Dilks, constituted a proper meet and confer effort. (Mot., p. 1; Opp’n, pp.
4-5; Reply, pp. 4-5.)
The
Court determines that the meet and confer efforts were proper, even if
Plaintiff Flores’s counsel could have done more to ensure that Plaintiff
received timely supplemental responses to RFAs, Set One, Nos. 23-24.
The
opposition admits that Ms. Dilks—Ms. Thompson’s secretary—“handles saving
discovery in the system and calendaring discovery deadlines, among other things.”
(Opp’n, p. 4.) The September 19, 2023 meet and confer declaration was emailed
to Ms. Thompson and Ms. Dilks—contrary to Ms. Thompson’s assertions and
undercutting Thompson’s “confirmation of email address” argument. (See Mot., Shirdel
Decl., Ex. 3.) Yet, Everbrands CA did not respond to that meet and confer
effort. (Mot., Shirdel Decl., ¶ 6.) Though the Court sympathizes with Ms.
Thompson’s schedule, she and her secretary appear to have received the meet and
confer email and failed to respond. Plaintiff’s counsel could have reached out
again. However, a meet and confer effort was made, if only once.
Legal
Standard
A
motion to compel a further response is used when a party gives unsatisfactory
answers or makes untenable objections to interrogatories, demands to produce,
or requests for admission. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a),
2031.310, subd. (a), 2033.290, subd. (a).)
To
obtain further responses to requests for admission, the movant must establish
that (1) the response to an RFA is evasive or incomplete (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a)(1)) or (2) the objection to an RFA is without merit or too
general (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (a)(2)).
Order
Compelling Further Admission Responses: GRANTED.
I. RFAs, Set One, No. 23
RFAs,
Set One, No. 23 reads: “Admit YOU [Everbrands CA] did not pay Plaintiff the
applicable minimum wage.” (Mot., Shirdel Decl., Ex. 1.)
Everbrands
CA’s response states: “Defendant cannot ‘admit’ or ‘deny’ this request as it is
vague as to time.” (Mot., Shirdel Decl., Ex. 2.)
Plaintiff’s
motion argues that further responses are merited for RFAs, Set One, No. 23
because Everbrands CA’s response is a simple yes-or-no question, clearly
limited to the time of Plaintiff’s employment with Everbrands CA. Plaintiff’s
motion asks that to the extent that a further response is ordered to this RFA,
that response should be made without objection and be accompanied by Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 responses to the extent that an admission request is
denied. (Mot., p. 5.)
Plaintiff’s
separate statement argues that the RFA is clear, requiring a simple yes-or-no
answer, and that any admission response can be qualified to admit to certain
periods when minimum wages were not paid and deny to periods when minimum wages
were paid. (Mot., Separate Statement, p. 2.)
Everbrands
CA’s opposition does not contain any arguments relating to the merit of
Everbrands’ response to this RFA. (See Opp’n, pp. 2-4 [factual and procedural
background], 4-7 [issued related to email, meet and confer, and sanctions].)
The conclusion, however, does represent that Everbrands CA will serve
supplemental responses by the time of this hearing. (Opp’n, p. 7.)
Everbrands
CA’s separate statement very briefly argues that the RFA is unclear as to scope
of time and that Everbrands CA can respond to the RFA once it is properly
stated. (Opp’n, Separate Statement, p. 2.)
Plaintiff’s
reply highlights the opposition’s failure to support the merits of Everbrands
CA’s response to this RFA. The reply also reiterates the merit of the RFA.
(Reply, p. 5.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Flores.
The
Court finds no merit to the objection relating to scope. RFAs, Set One, No. 23
is clearly confined to the period during which Plaintiff claims to have been
employed by Everbrand CA. (See Complaint, ¶¶ 19, 54-55 [employed from January
2020 to termination].) The RFA requests an admission as to whether Everbrands
CA paid minimum wages to Plaintiff during that time, information that should be
within Everbrands CA’s control to admit or deny, in whole or in part, with
proper qualifications.
Plaintiff’s
motion is thus GRANTED as to compelling a further, verified response to RFAs,
Set One, No. 23. To the extent that the response is a denial, corresponding
responses must be provided for Form Interrogatory No. 17.1. The response may be
qualified by an objection.
II. RFAs, Set One, No. 24
RFAs,
Set One, No. 24 reads: “Admit that YOU [Everbrands CA] did not provide
Plaintiff’s personnel file when demanded pursuant to Cal. Lab. Code §226.” (Mot.,
Shirdel Decl., Ex. 1.)
Everbrands
CA’s response states: “Unknown at this time, discovery is ongoing.”
(Mot., Shirdel Decl., Ex. 2.)
Plaintiff’s
motion argues that this response is “baseless” because the RFA involves a
simple yes-or-no question. (Mot., p. 5.)
Plaintiff’s
separate statement argues that Everbrands CA should have information to inform
an admission response relating to this RFA and that the personnel file was
never provided. (Mot., Separate Statement, p. 2.)
Everbrands
CA’s opposition does not contain any arguments relating to the merit of
Everbrands’ response to this RFA. (See Opp’n, pp. 2-4 [factual and procedural
background], 4-7 [issued related to email, meet and confer, and sanctions].) The
conclusion, however, does represent that Everbrands CA will serve supplemental
responses by the time of this hearing. (Opp’n, p. 7.)
Everbrands
CA’s separate statement provides that it “will amend its response to state that
a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter has been made, and the information
known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the
matter, and that “[a]t this time[,] [Everbrands CA] cannot locate Plaintiff’s
request for Plaintiff’s personnel file, and therefore lacks sufficient
information to admit or deny this request.” (Opp’n, Separate Statement, p. 3.)
Plaintiff’s
reply highlights the opposition’s failure to support the merits of Everbrands
CA’s response to this RFA. The reply also reiterates the merit of the RFA.
(Reply, p. 5.)
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Flores.
The
Court does not find credible that Everbrands CA’s inability to “locate
Plaintiff’s request for [her] personnel file” undercuts its ability to respond
to this RFA. Everbrands CA does or does not have records relating to requests
by Plaintiff Flores for her personnel file. Everbrands CA’s further response
can provide that information, as necessary. While Everbrands CA has indicated
its intention to supplement its responses to RFA, Set One, No. 24, the Court
does not have confirmation as to receipt of that supplemental response.
Plaintiff’s
motion is thus GRANTED as to compelling a further, verified response to RFAs,
Set One, No. 24. To the extent that the response is a denial, corresponding
responses must be provided for Form Interrogatory No. 17.1. The response may be
qualified by an objection.

Request for Sanctions: GRANTED.
The Court must impose monetary
sanctions against anyone (party, non-party, or attorney) who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses to requests for
admission, unless it finds that the person to be sanctioned acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff seeks $4,663.01 in
monetary sanctions against Everbrands CA and Ms. Thompson based on Everbrands
CA’s failure to answer the two RFAs as posed, forcing Plaintiff to bring this
motion and incur expenses. Expenses include 3.6 hours expended by counsel on
the moving papers, two hours to review and reply to the opposition, and one
hour to attend this hearing, all at a rate of $695 per hour, as well as $68.75
expended filing this motion and $7.26 on the reply. (Mot., p. 6; Mot., Shirdel
Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.)
Everbrands CA, in turn, seeks
$5,900 in monetary sanctions based on failure to meet and confer. (Opp’n, pp.
6-7.)
The Court finds that Plaintiff
Flores is entitled to monetary damages and that these sanctions are merited based
on Everbrands CA making evasive responses to discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010, subd. (f), 2023.030, subd. (a).) The Court also finds that the rates
and hours sought by Plaintiff are reasonable. Last, the Court finds that it
would be proper to impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Ms.
Thompson, jointly and severally, based on Ms. Thompson’s role in the events
necessitating this motion. The Court briefly recognizes the difficulties
expressed by Ms. Thompson in her declaration. (Opp’n, Thompson Decl., ¶¶ 5-8,
Ex. E.) However, the Court notes that the responses to the RFAs at issue were
evasive, and nothing before the Court indicates that proper supplemental
responses have been provided to those RFAs. Last, the Court notes that even if
responses had been provided, the Court would still be empowered to award
sanctions. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).) The Court finds for
all the reasons set forth above that Everbrands CA is not entitled to
sanctions.
Sanctions are thus GRANTED in the
amount of $4,663.01. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff Karen Flores’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Admissions, Set 1, is GRANTED as to compelling further responses to RFAs,
Set One, Nos. 23-24.
Everbrands, Inc., a California
corporation, is ORDERED to provide further, verified response to RFAs, Set One,
Nos. 23-24. To the extent that the response is a denial, Everbrands, Inc., a
California corporation, is ORDERED to provide the corresponding responses to
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.
Plaintiff Karen Flores’s Request for Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount
of $4,663.01.
Everbrands, Inc., a California
corporation, and Allyson K. Thompson, Esq., are ORDERED, jointly and severally,
to remit payment of $4,663.01 to Plaintiff Karen Flores within 30 days of this
ruling.
Everbrands, Inc.’s, a California corporation’s request for sanctions is
DENIED.