 Case Number:  21STCV40904    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  76              Plaintiff brings this action
based upon breach of three separate agreements.
             Defendant
Kin Hui filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff alleging a threat via a text.
Defendant Singpoli Capital
Corporation moves for a protective order regarding the subpoena for bank
records from Evertrust Bank issued by Plaintiff. 
TENTATIVE RULING
            The hearing Defendant Singpoli
Capital Corporation’s motion for a protective order regarding the subpoena for
bank records from Evertrust Bank issued by Plaintiff  is CONTINUED to February 14, 2024 at 8:30
a.m. Defendant’s supplemental brief and proposed protective order, as ordered
by the Court, are due January 29, 2024.
Defendant is to give notice of the court’s order and the continuance. 
ANALYSIS
Motion For Protective
Order
Defendant Singpoli Capital
Corporation moves for a protective order pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1
regarding the subpoena for bank records from Evertrust Bank issued by
Plaintiff.  
This motion is made on the grounds
that the subpoena seeks the production of all records related to EverTrust Bank
Account No. 002-610-772 for a period beginning October 1, 2014, to the present.
This broad request is not limited to relevant matters and encompasses a wide
range of financial transactions that have no bearing on the claims or defenses
in this litigation. 
(a)
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person. 
(Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1(a).)
      § 1987.1 does not contain a
meet and confer requirement. 
            The problem with Defendant’s motion
is that Defendant did not attach a copy of the subpoena, nor did Defendant set
forth the requests verbatim. As such, the Court cannot ascertain how to apply
Defendant’s overbreadth, privacy and undue burden objections. Further,
Defendant did not submit a proposed protective order, so the Court does not
know what modifications it would be ordering.
            Defendant is to submit a
supplemental brief setting forth the subpoena document requests verbatim, and
discuss how Defendant’s overbreadth, privacy and undue burden objections apply
to each category. Defendant is to also submit a proposed protective order so
that the Court will know what modifications to the subpoena it would be
ordering.
            The hearing is CONTINUED to February
14, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Defendant’s supplemental brief and proposed protective
order are due January 29, 2024. Defendant is to give notice of the continuance. 