 Case Number:  23VECV02235    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  T CALDERON V HYUNDAI
23VECV02235
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is DENIED.
Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s
Requests for Judicial Notice submitted with the Motion and the Reply are
GRANTED as to the documents’ existence but not as to any hearsay or facts in
dispute. 
Plaintiffs Serina Marie Calderon
and Anglica Carisma Calderon’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not
as to any hearsay or facts in dispute.
Defendant Hyundai Motor America
is ordered to file and serve a response to the Complaint within 30 days.
Introduction 
Defendant Hyundai Motor America
(Defendant) moved to compel arbitration with Plaintiffs Serina Marie Calderon
and Angelica Carisma Calderon (collectively, Plaintiffs) and to stay
prosecution of Plaintiffs’ Complaint.
Discussion  
Defendant moved to compel
arbitration based upon the arbitration 
provision found in the Retail Installment Sales Contract (RISC) entered
between Plaintiffs and non-party Mission Hills-H, Inc. (Dealership) on August 22,
2022 and the arbitration agreement found in the Owner’s Handbook & Warranty
Information (Handbook).  (Ali Ameripour
(Ameripour) Decl. pars. 4-5, Exhs. 2-3. As to the Handbook, Defendant argued
that they have standing to seek arbitration and asserted the doctrine of
equitable estoppel to enforce the arbitration agreement.  Defendant asserted that it would be unjust to
allow Plaintiffs to rely upon the warranty to seek repairs/bring this action
but then avoid binding arbitration under the same warranty.  The moving party has the initial burden to
show the existence of an arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the
evidence.  (Pinnacle Museum Tower
Association v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
234-236; Segal v. Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633; Giuliano v.
Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)  
The Handbook’s arbitration
agreement provided in relevant part:
BINDING ARBITRATION FOR
CALIFORNIA VEHICLES ONLY
PLEASE READ THIS SECTION IN ITS
ENTIRETY AS IT AFFECTS YOUR 
RIGHTS
If you purchased or leased your
Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you 
and we each agree that any claim
or disputes between us (including between 
you and any of our affiliated
companies) related to or arising out of your 
vehicle purchase, use of your
vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations in 
the warranty, or the duties
contemplated under the warranty, including without
limitation claims related to the
failure to conform a vehicle to warranty, failure 
to repurchase or replace your
vehicle, or claims for a refund or partial refund 
of your vehicle's purchase price
(excluding personal injury claims), but 
excluding claims brought under
the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, shall be 
resolved by binding arbitration
at either your or our election, even if the claim 
is initially filed in a court of
law. If either you or we elect to resolve our dispute 
via arbitration (as opposed to in
a court of law), such binding arbitration shall 
be administered by and through
JAMS Mediation, Arbitration and ADR 
Services (JAMS) under its
Streamlined Arbitration Rules & Procedures, or the 
American Arbitration Association
(AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.
 
We will pay all fees for any
arbitration except for the initial filing fee of $250
for JAMS or $200 for AAA. The
arbitration will be held in the city or county of 
your residence. To learn more
about arbitration, including the applicable 
rules and how to commence
arbitration, please contact:
 
***
 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR
VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, 
YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO
THE TERMS OF THIS 
BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY
ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER
THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING
ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED 
UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE
BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF 
YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE
TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT
OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY
(30) DAYS OF YOUR 
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF
THIS ARBITRATION
PROVISION.
 
(Ameripour Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. 2,
Handbook p. 12-14, emphasis in original.)
Defendant argued that Plaintiffs’
allegations in the Complaint presumed the existence of the Handbook.  However, a presumption based upon allegations
in the Complaint is not sufficient to present admissible evidence, especially
when the Complaint is not verified. 
Further, Plaintiffs’ Complaint made no express reference to the Handbook
or the Handbook’s warranty or even receipt of the same.  Because Plaintiffs made no reference to the
Handbook and the Complaint is not verified, Defendant did not meet its burden
to show the existence of an arbitration agreement.  Further, Defendant did not present any
evidence to show Plaintiffs’ receipt of the Handbook.  There is no showing that Plaintiffs had
knowledge of the arbitration agreement located in the Handbook which results in
a lack of showing of Plaintiffs’ consent by way of conduct (i.e., “accepting
benefits under this warranty, including having any repairs performed under
warranty.”)  Without admissible evidence
to show entry into the arbitration agreement in the Handbook, Defendant failed
to meet its initial burden under the preponderance of evidence standard.
Civil Code section 1670.5,
subdivision (a), codifies unconscionability as a reason for refusing a
contract’s enforcement.  It states:  “If the court as a matter of law finds the contract
or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was
made the court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the
remainder of the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit
the application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable
result.”  (Civ. Code, sec. 1670.5(a).)
There is no evidence that
Plaintiffs knew about the arbitration agreement in the Handbook.  There is no evidence they saw it.  There is no evidence they agreed to it.  There is no evidence that anyone told them
about it before the purchase.  
The Handbook’s arbitration clause
is unconscionable.  “The general
principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine “ ‘has both a procedural and a substantive element.’
” [Citation.] “The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.”  (OTO, LLC v.
Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125 (Kho).)  It
is procedurally unconscionable because of the failure of Defendant to make
known there is an arbitration provision in the Handbook.  It is not subject to negotiation.  There was no bargaining process.  Plaintiffs did not and could not freely
consent to the terms of the provision. 
There is no evidence that Plaintiffs agreed to the provision.  The provision is unfair because it was kept
secret from Plaintiffs before purchase of the vehicle.  Plaintiffs were never told before buying the
vehicle that any manufacturer’s warranty would be conditional and that
Plaintiffs would give up their right to a jury trial in order to access the
warranty provision.  There is unequal
power because Plaintiffs never had an opportunity to discuss the warranty
provision and arbitration provision with Defendant before purchasing the
vehicle from the Dealership.  Here,
Plaintiffs, would, under Defendant’s argument, be forced to accept the
arbitration agreement in order to access the warranty benefit but it is not
reasonable to believe that people would buy a new vehicle from a dealer without
a manufacturer’s warranty.  That is not a
reflection of the real world.  It is also
an unfair surprise to Plaintiffs as the provision purportedly is in a book
which may or may not have been given to Plaintiffs by the Dealership, and who
would have no idea that it was buried in the Handbook as per FMWC, as Defendant
was not a party to the RISC.
Further, there is also
substantive unconscionability.  The
actual terms of the arbitration provision are unfair.  The purchaser is given only 30 days from
purchase to opt out of the agreement, regardless of whether the purchaser has
experienced any warranty related problems in those 30 days.  This imposes a severe restricted time limit
to opt out, assuming if the provision is actually seen within 30 days.  This is patently unfair.  Defendant stated without any authority or
evidence that if Plaintiffs wanted a vehicle with different warranty terms,
“Plaintiffs could have easily found one.” 
This presumes, however, that Plaintiffs even knew about the terms before
Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle.  There
is no evidence that is the case here, or ever. 

The grounds are also especially
onerous because regardless of whether Plaintiffs were to seek any warranty work
the Handbook provision purportedly became immediately effective when Plaintiffs
used the vehicle.
Finally, although there is
mention about how to locate the arbitration provisions on the JAMS website,
Defendant has not established whether these procedures are easily found, nor is
there any evidence whether the arbitration provision meets JAMS’ requirements
for arbitration, and whether the Handbook’s provisions include all of the
rights allowed under the JAMS’ provisions or whether they restrict any of the
rights set forth in the JAMS’ provisions.
Because Defendant failed to meet
its initial burden to show Plaintiffs’ entry into the Handbook’s arbitration
agreement, and because the Court finds the Handbook’s arbitration agreement
unconscionable, the arguments as to the Handbook’s arbitration agreement is
unpersuasive.
Alternatively, Defendant
submitted that they are not a signatory/contracting party to the RISC.  However, Defendant argued that they can
enforce the RISC’s arbitration provision under the doctrine of equitable estoppel
or as third-party beneficiaries to the RISC. 
Defendant relied upon Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020 53 Cal.App.5th 486
(Felisilda) as authority for its contention. 
However, Plaintiffs asserted that the two theories were found to be
improper to allow a manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision found in a
RISC.  (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1324 (FMWC).)  Felisilda
came from the Third District Court of Appeal and FMWC came from our Second
District Court of Appeal.  Decisions of
every division of the District Courts of Appeal are binding upon all the
superior courts of this state.  (Auto
Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 455; see also Cuccia
v. Superior Court (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 347, 353-354.)  Where there is more than one appellate court
decision and those decisions are in conflict, the court exercising inferior
jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting decisions.
(Sears v. Morrison (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 577, 587.)  A superior court ordinarily will follow an
appellate opinion emanating from its own district even though it is not bound
to do so, while superior courts in other appellate districts may pick and
choose between conflicting lines of authority. (McCallum v. McCallum (1987) 190
Cal.App.3d 308, 315, fn. 4.)  Despite
Defendant’s argument that the reasoning of the opinion in FMWC is distinguishable
and the Felisilda opinion is the correct opinion, the Court exercises its discretion
to follow the reasoning in FMWC.  
The
instant arbitration agreement in the RISC is the exact same arbitration
agreement reviewed in FMWC.  The Court
agreed with FMWC that equitable estoppel is inapplicable because Plaintiffs’
claims for violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Act) were not
founded upon or intertwined with the RISC. 
Because Plaintiffs’ claims were not founded upon or intertwined with the
RISC, Defendant’s equitable estoppel argument is unpersuasive.
The Court further agreed with
FMWC that Defendant was not an intended third-party beneficiary to the RISC or
the RISC’s arbitration agreement.  As
opined by FMWC, Defendant must show that they are an intended third-party
beneficiary by applying a “three-part test.” 
(Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830
(Goonewardene.))  The Court finds that
the arbitration agreement in the RISC did not directly benefit Defendant
because Defendant is not the purchaser, dealer, or dealer’s employees, agents,
successors, or assigns.  The Court finds
that there was no motivating purpose in the RISC to benefit Defendant.  The intent of the parties was to buy, sell,
and finance the vehicle.  Lastly, to
allow Defendant to enforce the arbitration agreement as a third-party
beneficiary is inconsistent with the reasonable expectation of Plaintiffs and
the dealership since the right to arbitrate was limited to buyer and seller
(i.e., Plaintiffs and Dealership.)  The
Court finds that the opinion of the FMWC opinion to be directly on point with
the third-party beneficiary issue. 
Defendant’s motion based upon the third-party beneficiary contention is
unpersuasive.
The motion to compel arbitration
is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.