On February 22, 2023, Plaintiffs Deborah Collier, Talia Collier, and Tahira Collier filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Ms. Ann’s Residential Care, LLC, Jelani Janisee, Staci Janisee, and Christopher Dixon for (1) elder abuse, (2) negligence, (3) negligent hiring, training and supervision, and (4) wrongful death.Motion to Compel Arbitration  Defendants Ms. Ann’s Residential Care, LLC, Jelani Janisee, and Staci Janisee now seek to compel arbitration on the basis of an arbitration agreement executed by Deborah, through a power of attorney for Errol Collier, upon Errol’s admission at the subject facility.   Plaintiffs oppose the Motion, arguing: (1) the subject agreement does not encompass claims premised on the Resident Bill of Rights, which forms the basis for Plaintiffs’ claims; (2) the power of attorney was not effective here as Deborah did not have power directed at healthcare decisions; (3) Deborah never executed the agreement in her individual capacity; and (4) Talia and Tahira never signed the agreement at all. Plaintiffs’ first argument fails because there is no actual cause of action asserted pursuant to the Resident Bill of Rights in the FAC.  That Plaintiffs’ causes of action might reference principles relating to the Bill of Rights is not alone sufficient to show that the FAC falls outside the scope of the arbitration agreement.   Second, the power of attorney was effective here because the decision to sign an arbitration agreement does not truly relate to a healthcare decision.  For one thing, the “Agreement to arbitrate is not a precondition for medical treatment or for admission to the Facility.”  More importantly, the power of attorney at issue indicates that Deborah had power with respect to “Claims and litigation”, which is more precisely the category of activity at issue. Finally, while Tahira, Talia, and Deborah did not sign the subject agreement in their individual capacities, the agreement “is binding on all parties, including their personal representative, successors, family members and heirs”, which would include the Plaintiffs.   Furthermore, the agreement applies broadly to “any action for injury or death arising from negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory causes of action . . . .”  Thus, the agreement apparently encompasses the wrongful death claims of these non-signatories.  (See Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th 838, 851; Holland v. Silverscreen Healthcare, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1134.) The Court concludes that a valid arbitration agreement encompasses the entirety of the FAC.  Thus, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  This matter is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4)Motion to Compel Deposition  Plaintiffs seek to compel the deposition of Jelani Janisee.  This Motion is placed off calendar because this matter has been compelled to arbitration. Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 