 Case Number:  24NNCV00949    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PARK MARINO CONVALESCENT CENTER, INC., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SAN
   MARINO GARDENS WELLNESS CENTER, LP,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00949
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER FILED BY DEFENDANT SAN MARINO GARDENS WELLNESS
   CENTER, LP
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 10,
   2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
         This is a
commercial unlawful detainer action filed by Park Marino Convalescent Center,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) against San Marino Gardens Wellness Center, LP (“Defendant”)
relating to property located at 2585 East Washington Boulevard, Pasadena,
California (“Property”). The Property was the subject of a Ground Lease entered
into between A.V. Wagner, Marie E. Wagner, Carl W. Hollstein, and Jane A.
Hollstein, collectively as Ground Lessor, and M Three Corporation as Ground
Lessee. A licensed skilled nursing facility (“Facility”) operates on the
Property. On or about March 3, 2009, the lessors’ interests in the Ground Lease
was assigned to Park Mario Land Company, L.P. (Compl., Ex. A.) 
Plaintiff is
the lessee of the Property and owns the buildings, easements and appurtances,
all plumbing, heating, lighting, electrical, ventilation and air conditioning
systems, and fixtures affixed to the Facility (the “Leased Premises”). On or
about August 17, 2011, Plaintiff entered into a sublease with Defendant
(“Sublease”) for the Leased Premises. (Compl., Ex. B.) 
On April 22,
2024, Defendant filed this demurrer on the grounds that the Complaint fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain.
On May 28,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
On June 3,
2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
“Because of the summary nature of an unlawful
detainer action, a notice is valid only if the lessor strictly complies with
the statutorily mandated notice requirements.” (Bevill v. Zoura (1994)
27 Cal.App.4th 694, 697 [internal citations omitted].) A notice to perform or
quit is governed by section 1161(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure. Section 1161(3)
provides, in pertinent part, that a tenant of real property is guilty of
unlawful detainer as follows: 
When
the tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, after a neglect
or failure to perform other conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement
under which the property is held, including any covenant not to assign or
sublet, than the one for the payment of rent, and three days’ notice, excluding
Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing, requiring the
performance of those conditions or covenants, or the possession of the
property, shall have been served upon the tenant, and if there is a subtenant
in actual occupation of the premises, also, upon the subtenant. Within three
days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, after the
service of the notice, the tenant, or any subtenant in actual occupation of the
premises, or any mortgagee of the term, or other person interested in its
continuance, may perform the conditions or covenants of the lease or pay the
stipulated rent, as the case may be, and thereby save the lease from
forfeiture; provided, if the conditions and covenants of the lease, violated by
the lessee, cannot afterward be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed
herein, need be given to the lessee or the subtenant, demanding the performance
of the violated conditions or covenants of the lease.
 
          Defendant
argues that the Notice is defective because it does not state that Defendant
has “three days’ notice, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial
holidays”, to cure the alleged breach or quit the premises. (Compl., Ex. C,
p.2.) Instead, the Notice refers to “3 court days” and states:
[T]his
letter shall serve as notice that if the Tenant’s failure to maintain in good
condition and repair the roof is not cured within three (3) court days,
Tenant’s right to possession of the Premises will be terminated based on
Tenant’s defaults under Section 6.1 of the Lease. If within three (3) court
days after service of this notice Tenant either (1) fails to cure said breach
of the Lease or (2) fails to deliver possession of the Premises to Landlord,
Landlord will initiate legal proceedings against Tenant to obtain a judgment to
recover possession of the Premises and any other appropriate damages or relief.
 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that
its Notice is sufficient because “[i]t is undisputed that “court days” means
days other than Saturdays, Sundays and other judicial holidays, and the phrase
is used frequently with that meaning throughout the Code of Civil Procedure.” Notably,
Plaintiff does not cite to any statute or rule defining a “court day”. 
The statute establishing the
requirements for proper notice in an unlawful detainer refers to the notice
period as “three days, excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial
holidays” in the first sentence and repeats this phrase in the sentence
immediately after, underscoring the importance of this language. While the
meaning of a “court day” may be obvious to legal professionals, the fact that this
phrase cannot be easily discerned from these cited statutes cuts against
adopting it as an adequate substitution for the explicit language in the statute
governing notice requirements for unlawful detainer. After all, unlawful
detainer statutes are strictly construed, and “every intendment and presumption
is against the person seeking to enforce the forfeiture.” (Horton-Howard v.
Payton (1919) 44 Cal.App. 108, 112.) In light of this policy of strict
compliance, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
cannot amend the Complaint to cure this defective notice, which is an essential
element of an unlawful detainer action. Therefore, the Court does not grant
leave to amend. 
 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 10th
day of June
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 