  Case Number:  21STCV01552    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



AHMAD HEIDARI, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MARRIOTT
   INTERNATIONAL INC., SWVP WARNER CENTER HOTEL LLC, MERRITT HOSPITALITY LLC,
   HEI HOTELS LLC, and DOES 1 to 10
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 21STCV01552
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO CLARIFY THE COURT’S APRIL 3, 2024 RULING, OR
  ALTERNATIVELY, A PROTECTIVE ORDER AGAINST ADDITIONAL DISCOVERY
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 10,
  2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 23, 2021, plaintiff Ahmad
 Heidari (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against defendants Marriott
 International Inc. (“Marriott”). This action arises from a slip and fall that occurred on a pool deck
that had allegedly deteriorated anti-slip flooring. On February 24, 2021,
Plaintiff added SWVP
Warner Center Hotel LLC (“SWVP Warner”) and Merritt Hospitality LLC (“Merritt
Hospitality”) as Doe 1 and Doe 2. Marriott was dismissed on March 29, 2021. 
On September 23, 2021, the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. The FAC adds Nafiseh Heidari as a
plaintiff (hereafter, collectively with Plaintiff, “Plaintiffs”). 
On March 3, 2023, HEI Hotels, LLC (“HEI”) was
added as Doe 3. 
SWVP Warner, Merritt Hospitality, and HEI Hotels
(collectively, “Defendants”) seek an order clarifying a minute order issued on
April 3, 2024 (“April 3 Order”), or alternatively, a protective order against
additional discovery. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
subdivision (b), “[w]hen an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)¿
As it relates to new or different facts,
circumstances, or law under Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008, subdivision
(a), “the moving party must provide a satisfactory explanation for the failure
to produce that evidence at an earlier time.”¿ (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 246, 255.) Furthermore, “facts of which the party seeking
reconsideration was aware at the time of the original ruling are not “new or
different.” (In re Marriage of Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Procedural
Background
Defendants
seek clarification on whether discovery has been reopened. This case was
initially assigned to Department 30 of the Spring Street Courthouse
(“Department 30”). On January 12, 2024, after the parties submitted that they
were ready for trial, the matter was assigned to the Honorable Patrick T.
Madden in Department S28 of the Governor George Deukmejian Courthouse
(“Department S28”) for trial.  
After
being assigned the matter, Judge Madden issued a series of orders ruling on the
parties’ motions in limine. On February 7, 2024, Judge Madden set an
evidentiary hearing pursuant to section 402 of the Evidence Code to determine
whether to allow testimony from Plaintiffs’ expert witness, Matthew Reynolds.
The hearing took place on February 29, 2024, and March 1, 2024, and the parties
subsequently submitted supplemental briefing on the issue on March 4, 2024. 
On
March 6, 2024, Judge Madden ruled in favor of Plaintiffs and permitted Mr.
Reynolds’s testimony to be presented (“March 6 Order”). Judge Madden also
permitted Plaintiffs to add new records and three new witnesses, Jeffrey Block,
Bruce Greenfield, and Michael Van Do to the Exhibit and Witness Lists for
trial. Judge Madden then gave Defendants the opportunity to depose these three
newly-added witnesses and designate a new expert witness to address Mr.
Reynolds’s opinions by vacating the trial date and the discovery cut-off date
for both fact and expert witness discovery. The matter was returned to the
Honorable Lynne M. Hobbs in Department 30 and a trial setting conference was
scheduled for April 3, 2024. 
Prior
to the conference, on March 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a
declaration arguing that fact discovery has been reopened in its entirety and
that the trial setting conference should be continued. Plaintiffs’ counsel
claimed that due to Defendants’ gamesmanship, they only recently learned of the
possibility of additional defendants who should be held responsible for the
unlicensed installation of a pool deck and coping after the initial
construction of the pool; Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that written discovery had
been propounded on Defendants to determine the identities of those defendants
involved in the installation. 
In
response, on March 29, 2024, Defendants submitted a statement in which they
argued that Judge Madden’s ruling reopening discovery was without jurisdiction
because it contravened Judge Hobbs’s earlier rulings on Plaintiffs’ previous
requests to reopen discovery. Despite Defendants’ contention that whether to
reopen discovery was an outstanding issue which needed to be addressed, the
issue of reopening discovery was not addressed in the April 3 Order. In the
April 3 Order, Judge Hobbs only scheduled the final status conference and trial
(both of which have since been vacated after the case was re-assigned to this
Independent Calendar court). On April 19, 2024, Defendants filed this motion
for clarification or, in the alternative, a protective order. 
B.  
Defendants’
Request for Clarification/Protective Order
Defendants
argue that Judge Madden impermissibly reopened discovery even though fact
discovery was closed in April 2023 and that it has not been reopened despite
Plaintiffs’ multiple requests to Judge Hobbs to do so. Plaintiffs’ requests
were made before Judge Hobbs in Department 30 (and denied) on May 4 and July
28, 2023.  
At
a final status conference scheduled on May 4, 2023, Judge Hobbs continued the
trial date from May 18, 2023, to August 24, 2023, as stipulated by the parties.
Judge Hobbs also ordered that all pretrial deadlines, including discovery and
motion cut off dates, would track the new trial date. After this order was
issued, defense counsel requested oral argument to object to reopening fact
discovery on the grounds that the stipulation only included an extension of
expert discovery. Judge Hobbs therefore continued the final status conference
to May 5, 2023. 
The
minute order issued on May 4, 2023, reflects that later, outside the presence
of counsel, Judge Hobbs reviewed the stipulation and amended her order to
indicate that only expert discovery would track the new trial date “as
requested by the parties in their joint stipulation.” The record does not
indicate that the Court reviewed the declaration filed by Plaintiffs’ counsel
on the same day, which argued in favor of reopening fact discovery and claimed
that Defendants had employed obstructionist tactics. 
Several
months later, on July 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application
requesting to reopen fact discovery so their motions to compel the deposition
of SWVP Warner and Merritt Hospitality could be heard. These motions were filed
on March 29 and April 6, 2023, and scheduled to be heard on July 26 and August
23, 2023. On July 26, 2023, Judge Hobbs granted Plaintiffs’ request to reopen
discovery in part for the limited purpose of hearing Plaintiffs’ motion to
compel the deposition of SWVP Warner; the motion was denied as moot and Judge
Hobbs did not award sanctions. 
It
would be an overstatement to characterize Judge Madden’s March 6 Order as an improper
order granting reconsideration of Judge Hobbs’s earlier rulings. Rather, the
March 6 Order denied a motion in limine to exclude Plaintiffs’ expert witness
and allowed Plaintiffs to introduce new witnesses and exhibits; therefore, discovery
was reopened for the limited purpose of allowing Defendants the opportunity to
investigate and address Plaintiffs’ new evidence. 
The
Court notes that Defendants’ motion is, ironically, an improper motion for
reconsideration/clarification because it is an untimely request to review the
March 6 Order issued by Judge Madden purporting to reopen discovery, and not
Judge Hobbs’s April 3 Order. Furthermore, even if the motion could be construed
as one seeking clarification of Judge Hobbs’ April 3 Order, Defendants have not
shown that clarification is necessary. The April 3 Order ruling does not
conflict with Judge Madden’s March 6 Order, which unambiguously vacated the
prior trial date, the discovery cut-off date, and the date to designate expert
witnesses and to conduct expert witness discovery so that Defendants could
address Plaintiffs’ newly-presented evidence. If Defendants believed that Judge
Madden exceeded his authority by reopening discovery sua sponte, their avenue
for relief was to pursue a motion for reconsideration or to seek a writ of
mandate from the Court of Appeal. 
Accordingly,
the motion for clarification is DENIED and the Court proceeds to address
Defendants’ request for a protective order. Defendants state that they are
willing to waive further discovery for a protective order preventing Plaintiff
from conducting additional discovery. A protective order is not necessary
because discovery has not been reopened for Plaintiffs; therefore, Plaintiffs’
discovery is not permitted and any motion to compel responses to them would be
meritless and subject to sanctions unless Plaintiffs file (and the Court
grants) a motion to reopen discovery which requires a showing of diligence and an
explanation of why the proposed discovery was not completed earlier. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ Motion is DENIED in its entirety. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 10th
day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at alhdept3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other
parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt
the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 