 Case Number:  22STCV06115    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    July 8, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV06115              
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        John
Doe v. Loyola Marymount University, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, John Doe  

 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Loyola Marymount University (Non-Opposition)
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                           August 26, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File Second Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED.  Defendants’ existing Answer to the First Amended
Complaint shall stand as to the SAC
 
¿¿ 
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On
February 17, 2022, John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action. On March 16, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants, Loyola Marymount
University (“LMU”) and Michael Mozilo (“Mozilo”). The FAC alleges the following
causes of action: (1) Discrimination under Education Code § 66251; (2)
Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act ; (3) Education Code
Section 220; (4) Negligence against Loyola Marymount University; (5) Breach of
Contract; (6) Negligence against Michael Mozilo and Does 50-99; (7) California
Civil Code § 1708.85 “Revenge Porn Statute”; (8) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and (9) Injunctive Relief. Plaintiff brought this lawsuit
against LMU and Mozilo alleging that LMU failed to take appropriate action to
investigate and remedy alleged abusive conduct by Plaintiff’s fellow student
Mozilo. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that (a) Mozilo unlawfully took
and distributed a video recording of Plaintiff to fellow students; (b) that
Mozilo and fellow students tormented and bullied Plaintiff based on the illicit
video; (c) Plaintiff’s fellow students threatened and harassed Plaintiff; (d)
that LMU’s employees, despite being aware of the misconduct, failed to
investigate or take action to prevent or remedy the abuse; and (e) Plaintiff
was forced to leave school, surrender an athletic scholarship, and sustained
substantial damages as a result of the misconduct and LMU’s failures to follow
its legal obligations and duties. 
 
            Now, Plaintiff seeks leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) to clarify the statutory basis for Plaintiff’s
first cause of action. Plaintiff contends that the proposed amendment does not
substantively change the factual basis for Plaintiff’s lawsuit or add or delete
any causes of action or claims for damages. Plaintiff contends that the only
substantive additions are the clarifying the statutory authority for bringing
Plaintiff’s first cause of action against Defendant, Loyola Marymount
University. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion
for Leave to Amend and file Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On June 24, 2024,
Defendant Loyola Marymount University filed a Notice of Non-Opposition. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff has brought this motion seeking leave to file a
SAC in order to clarify the statutory basis for Plaintiff’s first cause of
action as against Loyola Marymount University. Pursuant to California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, Plaintiff’s moving papers include: (1) a copy of the
proposed and numbered amendment; (2) specifications by reference to pages and
lines of the allegations that would be added; and (3) a declaration from
Plaintiff’s counsel, Craig Charles, Esq., specifying the effect, necessity and
propriety of the amendments, date of discovery, and reasons for delay.
(Declaration of Craig Charles (“Charles Decl.”), ¶¶ 4, 6-7.) Further, counsel
for Loyola Marymount University, Joseph V. Marra III, filed a declaration as a
Notice of Non-opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion. 
Because the requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324 have been met by Plaintiff, and because Defendant, Loyola Marymount
University, nor other defendants filed opposition to the present motion, this
Court GRANTS the motion. 
            
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File his Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED, and Defendants’ existing Answer shall stand as to the SAC.
 Unless notice of this ruling is waived, Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice. 
 