  Case Number:  21STCV45883    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    July 8, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV45883
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mary E. Evans v.
County of Los Angeles, et al.  
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff, Mary E. Evans 
¿
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
County of Los Angeles
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                            November 12, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) DENIED.
 
¿¿ 
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On December 16, 2023, Plaintiff, Mary
Evans (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, County of Los Angeles
(“County”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Trespass; and (2)
Negligence. The Complaint is based on the following facts: On August 6, 2020
Plaintiff was informed via email from a staff person at the office of Los
Angeles County’s Fourth District that there was no problem with the landscaping
at the Sunnyridge Property. Plaintiff notes that the email indicated that the
Sunnyridge Property was in full compliance with the County’s fire department
requirements, and that there was “nothing to do at [that] time.” Nonetheless,
Plaintiff asserts that starting on August 19, 2020, Plaintiff’s
property was damaged by Defendants’ improper and unwarranted removal of a
significant amount of green, professionally irrigated landscaping that
consisted in large part of a green privacy barrier comprised of a row of plant
materials with root crowns inside Evans property existing for the primary
purpose of visual privacy barrier and erosion control for the Sunnyridge
Property.
 
Plaintiff
asserts that the property damage to her landscaping severely damaged the market
value of the Sunnyridge Property and will cost, in excess of $25,000 to
replace. 
 
Now, Plaintiff moves on a Motion for
Leave to File a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend and file First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On November
13, 2023, Defendant County filed an opposition. On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
asserts that the parties spent several months attempting to reach an informal
resolution to Plaintiff’s claims – all to no avail. However, Plaintiff contends
that when discovery was reinitiated, and Defendant served supplemental
discovery responses, it became apparent to Plaintiff that the facts existed to
support the newly sought causes of action. (McGonigle Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff
argues that that there is still sufficient time or Defendant to file a
responsive pleading before trial, the Complaint does not add significantly
different allegations, and the amendments are essential additions to the
allegations previously set forth. Plaintiff further notes that Defendant has
not yet deposed Plaintiff, and thus will have a full opportunity to seek her
testimony regarding the new allegations and claims. 
 
            In
opposition, County argues that Plaintiff’s new allegations are barred by the
Doctrine of Variance. County argues that Plaintiff’s government tort claim
submitted prior to filing this lawsuit identified a single incident and made no
mention or reference to any condemnation, planning, or continuing use of
Sunnyridge Property be Defendant. Specifically, County points out the claim
presentation requirement, that the facts alleged in the complaint, including
the damages alleged to have been suffered by Plaintiff, must be consistent with
the facts within the government claim. County argues that Plaintiff never
submitted a new or amended government claim relating to the proposed new causes
of action proves they are unrelated and a separate claim. 
 
            County
next argues that Plaintiff’s proposed amendment is precluded and should not be
permitted because Plaintiff has known about her claims since no later than
February 2021, almost two years ago, and has failed to seek leave to amend her
Complaint until now, on the eve of mediation. 

 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not satisfied her burden under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) Although Plaintiff has
included a copy of the proposed FAC, and has specified by reference to pages
and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added, Plaintiff has not –
in the Court’s view – carried its burden or showing what caused the delay in
making the new allegations. On numerous occasions, Plaintiff blames the delayed
receival of County’s supplemental responses. However, nowhere in Plaintiff’s
moving or responding papers, does Plaintiff indicate when she received said
supplemental responses. The Court finds this at issue as County suggests
Plaintiff could have brought these additional claims as early as three years
ago (February 2021). As such, the Court requires oral argument as to what
caused the delay in bringing these amendments. Trial is scheduled for four
months from now. If Plaintiff has had the supplemental discovery responses for
three years, and is just now seeking leave to file an amendment,  the Court will be more inclined to deny this
motion.
 
            In context of the Government Claim
Presentation requirements, Plaintiff asserts in her reply brief, that the facts
asserted in the FAC are consistent with those in the originally filed
Complaint, and satisfies the claim presentation requirements. Such an argument
does not seem to benefit Plaintiff as this implies she could have brought these
additional claims at the initiation of this case. If this Court grants this
motion, extensive analysis will be required to determine whether Plaintiff’s
new causes of action meet the government claims presentation requirements. A
motion for leave to amend is not the preferred vehicle for engaging in this
analysis. Accordingly, the Court declines to consider the merits of such
arguments presented in this motion at this time. 
 
            Lastly, this Court notes that County
argues it will face a substantial amount of prejudice if this case were to move
forward as it would provide County only a matter of days to conduct an inquiry
into Plaintiff’s additional causes of action, because the parties have already
committed to a full day of mediation on December 5, 2023. The Court also notes
that the parties have already stipulated twice to continue trial and all
related trial dates, and that the new date is November 12, 2024. Certainly, if
this Court were to allow an amended filing at this stage, a further
continuation might be required in order for the parties to conduct discovery as
to the new causes of action. 
 
            Without Plaintiff’s testimony during
the hearing, confirming that she has only recently come into knowledge of facts
and discovery via the County’s supplemental responses, the Court is inclined to
DENY this motion as Plaintiff has not carried her burden pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, et seq.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File her First Amended
Complaint is DENIED.  
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.

 
 
 