 Case Number:  24TRCV00835    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    July 8, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00835
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        We
Are Reality, Inc. v. Pieces, LP, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Pieces, LP
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, We Are Reality, Inc. (Late-Filed
Opposition)
¿¿ 
DEFAULT ENTRY:                May
14, 2024 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Set Aside
Default
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Argue, but the Court is
inclined to GRANT.
 
¿¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
March 11, 2024, Plaintiff, We Are Reality, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed an unlawful
detainer complaint against Defendant, Pieces, LP, and DOES 1 through 10. The
complaint alleges Plaintiff is the landlord and owner of the subject property
of 249 Rees St., Playa Del Rey, CA 90293. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant,
Pieces, LP agreed to pay $20,000 a month in rent. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant failed to pay rent and was served a three-day notice to pay rent or
quit. Now, Plaintiff seeks to recover past due rent owed by Defendant in the
amount of $45,000. 
 
On
April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Application and Order to Serve Summons by
Posting for Unlawful Detainer, which was subsequently granted the same day. The
Application to serve by posting makes no mention of the claimed vacation home
use of the property rather than as residential premises.
 
On
May 14, 2024, default entry was entered by the Court’s clerk as against
Defendant, Pieces, LP (“Defendant”) as to possession only of the subject
property. On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Application for Writ of
Possession. On May 20, 2024, the Clerk issued the writ of possession. 
 
Now,
Defendant has filed a Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment and Leave to Amend
Action. 
 
 
 
B.   
Procedural 
 
On June 11, 2024, Defendant
filed this Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment and Leave to
Amend Action. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an untimely opposition brief that
the Court nonetheless considered. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Legal Standard
¿ 
The Motion is brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.5.
 
Courts may set aside a
default or default judgment due to lack of actual notice. Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.5 states: 
“(a) When service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of
motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered. 
(b) A notice of motion to set
aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall
designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action. 
(c) Upon a finding by the
court that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a)
and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set
aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and
allow the party to defend the action.” 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Defendant
is moving to set aside the default judgment entered by the clerk on May 14,
2024 on the grounds of Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 as it argues Plaintiff’s
service by posting did not result in actual notice. Defendant contends that
throughout 2023 and 2024, Plaintiff was in regular communication with Defendant
regarding their attempt to conclude a sale of the subject property, but that
Plaintiff never mentioned its unlawful detainer action against Defendant.
Further, Defendant notes that it is a limited partnership with a registered
agent for service. (Declaration of Jay Grdina (“Grdina Decl.”), ¶ 18.) However,
Defendant asserts that the Summons and Complaint were never served to
Defendant’s registered agent for service. (Grdina Decl., ¶ 18.) 
 
Pursuant
to the Proof of Service filed on May 14, 2024, Defendant was served by posting
at the subject property and U.S. mail. The Application to Serve Summons by
Posting for Unlawful Detainer, filed on April 18, 2024, indicated that service
had not been attempted during regular business hours at the place of employment
of the defendant because the places of employment of the defendant was not
known. The application further indicates that service had been attempted at the
subject property which was asserted to be the residence of the defendant.
Further, the application included a declaration of non-service indicating that
on four different occasions from March 15, 2024 to March 20, 2024, service had
been unsuccessfully attempted prior to the application for service by posting
was filed. 
 
Defendant
argues that service by posting was improper because service was only made to
the subject property, a property Plaintiff knew Defendant only used as a summer
vacation home rather than as Defendants’ regular residence address. As such,
Defendant contends that its lack of physical presence at the subject property  was not because it was avoiding service, but
because it occurred at a time Defendant was not naturally there. If it is true
that Plaintiff knew the subject property was only used as a summer vacation
home by Defendant, but nonetheless only attempted service there during winter
or spring months, the Court might not have authorized service by posting at the
property without further efforts to serve the defendant elsewhere. Defendant
indicates it is a limited partnership organized in South Dakota with a
registered agent for service. 
 
In
Plaintiff’s tardy opposition brief, it indicates that Defendant held itself out
as a California limited partnership throughout its interactions with the
Plaintiff and in the execution of the lease agreement. As such, Plaintiff
contends that it acted in good faith when it conducted a thorough search in the
California Secretary of State database and found no registration for Pieces,
LP, indicating that Defendant failed to comply with California’s statutory
requirements for registering as a foreign limited partnership conducting
business within the state. Because of this, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
motion is without merit as Defendant did not designate a lawful agent for
service of process within the state, and consequently, service at the subject
property was the only viable option available to the Plaintiff. But Plaintiff
did not seek to serve Defendant via the Secretary of State as one might if a
party had failed to designate a registered agent; rather, Plaintiff only sought
resort through a substitute service by posting, a method permissible only in
unlawful detainer actions where the Legislature has recognized that the
landlord may only have the subject property address as a way of giving notice
to a tenant.  
 
This
Court notes that Defendant’s motion and supporting documents comply with Code
of Civil Procedure section 473.5 as the motion has been filed concurrently with
the proposed answer. However, the Court is interested (as it is not discussed
in the moving papers) as to how Defendant received notice of the entry of
default judgment, but not of service. Depending on the parties’ presentation of
oral argument during the hearing of the above, and given the strong public
policy favoring resolution of cases on their merits, the Court’s tentative
ruling is to GRANT the Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473.5. 
 
 