  Case Number:  22STCV21036    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  11 22STCV21036 (Gateway Blvd Holdings)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
Date:                           12/8/23
 
Time:                          1:45
pm
 
Moving Party:           California State Controller’s Office
(“Controller”)
 
Opposing Party:        Gateway Blvd Holdings, LLC (“Gateway” or
“Plaintiff”)
 
Amici:                        California
State Association of Counties (“CSAC”) and County Recorders’ Association of
California (“CRAC”)
 
Department:              11
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
CSAC and CRAC’s request for judicial notice is denied as to Attachment 1
and granted as to Attachments 2, 3, and 4. 
The Court judicially notices the existence of the website pages and
legislative history.
 
The Controller’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted in part
and denied in part with leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
“For services performed by the recorder’s officer, the county recorder
shall charge and collect the fees” set forth in Government Code Article 5.  (Cal. Gov. Code § 27360.)
 
One of the Article 5 fees is the section 27388.1 fee.  Section 27388.1 provides that, “in
addition to any other recording fees specified in this code, a fee of
seventy-five dollars ($75) shall be paid at the time of recording of every real
estate instrument, paper, or notice . . . per each single transaction per
parcel of real property.”  (Id. at §
27388.1, subd. (a)(1).)  “The fee . . .
shall not exceed two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225).”  (Ibid.)
 
Gateway contends the statutory
language means the fee, which Gateways calls the SB2 Tax, must be no more than
$75 to record a single real estate document. 
(See First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), ¶¶ 1-5, 44.)  
 
Gateway claims the Los Angeles
County Recorder overcharged, doubling the fee “from $75 to $150 for the
recordation of a single instrument titled ‘Substitution of Trustee and Full
Reconveyance.’”  (Id. at ¶ 5.)  Gateway alleges that the overcharging
violated section 27388.1(a)(1) and that the Controller is responsible because
the recorder acted on behalf of the State and remitted the overcharge to the
Controller.  (See, e.g., id. at ¶¶ 3,
5-6.)
 
The operative complaint is the
FAC.  It asserts six causes of action
for:
 
(1) writ of mandate; 
 
(2) declaratory relief; 
 
(3) refund; 
 
(4) failure to perform mandatory
duty; 
 
(5) conversion; and 
 
(6) injunctive relief.  
 
Each claim is a class cause of
action because Gateway contends the alleged misconduct “is going on throughout
the State[.]”  (Opposition Brief, p. 1
[claiming all 58 county recording offices overcharge in violation of section
27388.1].)[1]
 
On 4/17/23, the Court heard the
Controller’s demurrer to the FAC.  The
Court sustained with leave to amend as to the first, second, and fourth causes
of action and overruled as to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of
action.  Plaintiff chose to not
amend.  (See Motion, p. 7 n.1.)
 
On 5/25/23, the Controller filed
a motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
The motion concerns the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action.
 
On 10/5/23, CSAC and CRAC filed
an amicus brief.
 
On 11/8/23, Gateway filed
oppositions to the motion and amicus brief.
 
On 11/20/23, the Controller filed
a reply.
 
Now, the Court must determine
whether the briefs support granting or denying judgment on the pleadings.
 
LAW
 
Judgment on the Pleadings
 
“A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function
as a general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 7:275.)  Generally, “the rules governing demurrers
apply.”  (Ibid.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 438 is the statute that
authorizes motions for judgment on the pleadings.  It states:
 
(c)(1) The motion . . . may only be made
on one of the following grounds:
 
* * *
 
(B) If
the moving party is a defendant, that either of the following conditions exist:
 
(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the complaint.
 
(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 438, subds.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)
 
The “limitations” imposed by section 438
“may be meaningless because a nonstatutory motion for judgment on the pleadings
apparently survives without such limitations.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 7:277,
emphasis in original.)  “A court should
be able to decide there is no valid cause of action at any time.  There is no point in forcing a case to go to
trial because the motion was made too late or otherwise failed [] § 438
requirements.”  (Ibid., emphasis in
original.)
 
Indispensable Party
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 389(a) provides:
 
(a) A
person who is subject to service of process and whose joinder will not deprive
the court of jurisdiction over the subject matter of the action shall be joined
as a party in the action if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be
accorded among those already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to
the subject of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action
in his absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to
protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject
to a substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent
obligations by reason of his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined,
the court shall order that he be made a party.
 
(Id. at § 389, subd. (a).)
 
The Rutter Guide
summarizes section 389(a) this way:
 
Plaintiff is required to
join as parties to the action any person whose interest is such that:
 
* In the person’s absence, complete relief cannot be accorded among those already
parties to the action; or
 
* Any judgment rendered in the person’s absence might
either (a) prejudice the person's
ability to protect his or her interest in later litigation; or (b) leave any of the parties before the court
exposed to a risk of additional liability or inconsistent
obligations.
 
(Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 2:156, emphasis in
original.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Improper Motion
 
Plaintiff contends the
Controller’s motion is improper because it repeats the demurrer argument, and
it “seek[s] a ruling on a defect or misjoinder of parties[.]”  (Opposition to Motion, p. 4.)  Plaintiff claims misjoinder is not a basis
for judgment on the pleadings.  (See
ibid.)
 
The Controller asserts that the
motion presents different arguments than the demurrer did and that the Court
did not rule on the arguments at the demurrer stage.  (See Reply, pp. 5-7.)
 
The Court agrees with the
Controller.  The Court overruled the
demurrer to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action because the Controller
“fail[ed] to address” them in the moving brief. 
(4/17/23 Ruling Re: Demurrer to First Amended Complaint, p. 5.)  The substantive arguments here were not made,
considered, or decided there, so the instant motion constitutes a new and
different motion.
 
The fact that section 438 does
not list misjoinder as a ground for judgment on the pleadings fails to change
the result.  The Court is permitted to
treat the Controller’s motion as a nonstatutory motion despite section 438’s
limitations.
 
Immunity
 
Turning to the third (refund) and
fifth (conversion) causes of action, the Controller claims it is entitled to
Government Code section 815 immunity. 
(See Motion, pp. 9-11; see also Reply, pp. 7-8 [citing section 815 for
the proposition that “public entities . . . are immune from common law claims,
specifically tort claims allegedly resulting in damages”].)
 
Plaintiff contends section 815
immunity does not apply because the refund and conversion claims: 
 
* do not involve an “injury” as
defined in Government Code section 810.8 (see Opposition to Motion, pp. 8-10);
and 
 
* seek to recover restitution
instead of damages.  (See ibid.)
 
Plaintiff’s first point is
questionable.  Plaintiff cites City of
Dinuba v. County of Tulare (2007) 41 Cal.4th 859, arguing that
an “injury” under section 810.8 must result from a wrong that would be
actionable if it had been inflicted by a private person.  Plaintiff contends a private person could not
have overcharged the SB2 Tax.  (See id.
at pp. 8-9.)  Arguably, though,
overcharging and converting personal property are wrongs, nature-wise, that a
private person could commit and that would be actionable.  (See Reply, p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff’s second point is
contradicted by the FAC.  The refund
claim alleges that “Plaintiff and the Class have been damaged in an
amount to be proven at trial” and that they “are entitled to a refund and/or damages,
plus prejudgment interest.”  (FAC, ¶ 51,
emphasis added.)  The conversion claim is
similar.  It states that “Plaintiff and
Class members have suffered damages in an amount to be determined at
trial” and that they “are entitled to actual damages sustained as a
result of Defendants’ wrongful acts and sums sufficient to compensate” them
“for all harm suffered as a result of Defendants’ conduct.”  (Id. at ¶ 63, emphasis added.)  The plain language clearly seeks damages.
 
Nevertheless, the Court finds
that this part of the motion should be denied. 
The “partial demurrer” rule applies to judgment on the pleadings.  (See Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 7:295.)  This means a motion for judgment on the pleadings cannot attack “only
part of a cause of action[.]” 
(Ibid.)  The refund and conversion
claims request restitution in addition to damages (see FAC, ¶¶ 51 [requesting a
“refund” of the overcharged amounts], 64 [stating that “Plaintiff and the class
are entitled to restitution”]), and the Controller fails to cite a published
case holding that section 815 immunity extends to restitution requests, so this
portion is denied.  (See Edmon &
Karnow, supra, at ¶ 7:295 [instructing that, “where a claim may be based on
alternative grounds one of which is properly pleaded, the motion will
ordinarily be denied”].)
 
Plaintiff asserts that, even if
section 815 covers the refund and conversion claims, the Controller is not
immune since it failed to comply with mandatory duties created by Government
Code sections 12410, 12418, and 12422.5(a) to conduct audits and to establish
guidelines to prevent financial errors. 
(See Opposition to Motion, pp. 10-12.) 

 
The Court does not need to reach
this argument given the preceding analysis.
 
As a matter of guidance, the
argument is unavailing at this point. 
The Court explained last time that “[n]one of these sections is alleged”
in the FAC, “none of them expressly mandates audits with respect to the [SB2
Tax],” and Plaintiff “fail[ed] to cite authority interpreting them as requiring
such audits.”  (4/17/23 Ruling Re:
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint, p. 4.) 
Here, Plaintiff still fails to cite authority.  (See Opposition to Motion, pp. 7, 10-11,
12-13.)
 
Plaintiff’s request for leave to
amend is granted.  While it is
appropriate to deny this part due to the applicability of the “partial
demurrer” rule, Plaintiff should receive an opportunity to amend to add “facts
outlining the Controller’s” purported duties and violations under sections
12410, 12418, and 12422.5(a) and to make the complaint consistent with
Plaintiff’s theories.  (Id. at p. 13
n.3.)
 
Injunctive Relief
 
The Controller contends the sixth
(injunctive relief) cause of action should be dismissed because:
 
* the Controller “is not
undertaking any act that can be the subject of an injunction” (Motion, p. 11
[stating that “‘the Controller is not the entity who allegedly overcharged’ the
recording fees”]); and
 
* the Court lacks jurisdiction to
enjoin enforcement of a valid law.  (See
id. at pp. 11-12; see also Reply, pp. 9-10.)
 
Plaintiff claims the “requested
injunctive relief to stop the Controller from accepting the SB2 overcharges
collected by the county recorders is simply an enforcement of the Controller’s
duty under . . . sections 12410, 12418, and 12422.5(a)[.]”  (Opposition to Motion, p. 13.)
 
Plaintiff also claims the
Controller’s jurisdiction argument mischaracterizes Plaintiff’s position.  Rather than seeking to enjoin enforcement of
the SB2 Tax statute, Plaintiff says it wants the Controller to be ordered to
comply with the law.  (See id. at pp.
12-14.)
 
This part of the motion is
denied.  The FAC states that “Plaintiff
seeks an injunction prohibiting the state from directing the counties to
collect, or accepting from the counties any collection of, any SB2 fee in
excess of $75.00 triggered by the recording of a single instrument that
documents the removal of a lien on real property.”  (FAC, ¶ 66.) 
At this stage, assuming Plaintiff’s construction of the SB2 Tax statute
is correct, the injunctions do not appear to involve an act that cannot be
enjoined pursuant to the statute, nor is Plaintiff moving to enjoin the
statute’s enforcement.  The Court finds
that Plaintiff states a claim.
 
Again, however, leave to amend is
granted to give Plaintiff a chance to allege facts related to sections 12410,
12418, and 12422.5(a).[2]
 
Indispensable Party
 
Next, the Controller argues that
the Los Angeles County Recorder is an indispensable party.  (See Motion, pp. 12-13; see also Reply, pp.
10-12.)
 
CSAC and CRAC go an extra step or
two.  They insinuate that the Los Angeles
County Recorder is indispensable (see Amicus Brief, p. 12) yet claim judgment
on the pleadings should be granted because Plaintiff failed to exhaust
administrative remedies, and it is too late to substitute the Los Angeles
County Recorder for a Doe Defendant. 
(See id. at pp. 10-12.)
 
Plaintiff contends the Los
Angeles County Recorder is not indispensable because:
 
* “[r]eturn of the subject funds
by the Controller (the only entity with access to and control over the Trust)
and an order requiring the Controller to refuse funds subsequently tendered by
any county will provide complete relief” (Opposition to Motion, p. 5); and
 
* “[t]he county recorders have no
interest in what happens to” the money in the Trust.  (Id. at p. 6.)
 
Also, Plaintiff contends the
amicus brief should be ignored because it advances different arguments than the
motion does.  (See Opposition to Amicus
Brief, pp. 2-3.)
 
This portion of the motion is
granted with leave to amend.  County
recorders, not the Controller, charge and collect the alleged overcharges.  Plaintiff alleges that this conduct is
ongoing.  (See, e.g., FAC, ¶ 67.)  Since the FAC requests damages, restitution,
and injunctions, the Court doubts that complete relief could be had without the
Los Angeles County Recorder – and perhaps the other county recorders –
present.  If the Court were to grant the
injunctions as alleged, the Controller would be (1) “prohibit[ed] . . . from
directing the counties to collect” overcharges, and (2) ordered to stop
“accepting” overcharges “from the counties[.]” 
(Id. at ¶ 66.)  Neither injunction
would necessarily prevent current and future collections by the county
recorders, and the county recorders would possess and control any overcharges
that the Controller refused to accept. In situations like that, damages and
restitution presumably would need to come from the county recorders.  Thus, Plaintiff should amend to name the Los
Angeles County Recorder or to allege facts that render the Los Angeles County
Recorder non-indispensable.  Plaintiff is
free to do the same as to the other county recorders.  
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff about
the amicus brief.  CSAC and CRAC’s issues
– failure to exhaust administrative remedies and failure to add the Los Angeles
County Recorder on time – pertain to a nonparty and are premature.
 
Possession of the Alleged
Overcharges
 
Last, the Controller asserts that
it does not possess the alleged overcharges. 
(See Motion, pp. 14-15 [claiming the money has been deposited in the
“Building Homes and Jobs Trust Fund” for appropriation by the Legislature]; see
also Reply, pp. 8-9.)
 
Plaintiff contends the
Controller’s alleged duties under sections 12410, 12418, and 12422.5(a) give
the Controller “ultimate responsibility for the SB2 funds regardless of whether
the funds have been disbursed or otherwise appropriated.”  (Opposition to Motion, p. 7.)
 
This part of the motion is denied
with leave to amend.  The possession
issue is a factual issue.  (See id. at p.
6.)  Moreover, to repeat, Plaintiff
should receive an opportunity to add allegations regarding sections 12410,
12418, and 12422.5(a).
 
 


