 Case Number:  23TRCV00479    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
RENEE
  KHANG, et al.,


 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00479




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GENERAL
  MOTORS, LLC,


 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 26,
2024
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Renee Khang and Richard Khang
Responding
Party:                  Defendant General Motors, LLC
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Defendant General Motors, LLC is ordered to
produce its PMQ(s) within 20 days on a mutually agreeable date and time on the
categories as set forth in the notice of deposition.
BACKGROUND
On February 21, 2023, plaintiffs
Renee Khang and Richard Khang filed a complaint against General Motors LLC for
violations of Song Beverly Act.
On November 16, 2023, the court
granted plaintiffs’ motion to compel further documents as to Nos. 16-21 and
ordered counsel to meet and confer regarding an agreed upon deposition date.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” 
CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A
motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
(1)        The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
(2)        The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
CCP
§2025.230 states:  “If the deponent named
is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested.  In that event,
the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its
officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
Renee Khang and Richard Khang request an order compelling defendant General
Motors to produce a person most qualified for deposition.
            Plaintiffs
assert that on May 26, 2023, they served on defendant a notice of deposition of
the person most qualified and demand to produce documents.  On June 15, 2023, defendant served objections.  On August 10, 2023, plaintiffs’ counsel sent
an email to defense counsel to set a mutually convenient time and place for
defendant’s PMQ deposition.  After
receiving no response, plaintiffs’ counsel sent another email on August
17.  Plaintiff contends that defense
counsel did not respond.  See Jonathan
Sue decl.
            Defendant
objected on the ground that the notice was unilaterally noticed and that it
will produce a witness at a mutually convenient time and place as to categories
1-4, 7, and 10.  Defendant objected to
certain of the categories and the document requests.
            In
the opposition, defendant asserts that it has agreed and remains willing to
produce a witness to testify as to categories 1-4, 7, and 10.  Defendant objects to the other categories and
asserts that plaintiffs do not need information concerning GM’s internal
investigations and/or analysis of the “defects” alleged in the complaint; GM’s
third-party dispute resolution program is irrelevant; and information regarding
GM’s policies and procedures for evaluating and/or investigating consumer
requests for repurchase or replacement of their vehicles is irrelevant.
            The
court finds that the deposition notice was properly noticed.  Defendant objected that the notice was
unilateral but agreed to produce a witness at a mutually agreeable time and
place.  Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to
meet and confer at least twice before filing the motion.  The court finds that plaintiff has not
addressed or demonstrated good cause for the documents requested as required by
CCP §2025.450(b).  As to the categories,
the court notes that there is overlap as to the requests for production that
were at issue in plaintiff’s motion to compel further documents.  As to that motion, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion.  In accordance, the
court finds that defendant’s objections lack merit as to the categories.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
ORDER
Defendant
General Motors LLC is ordered to produce its PMQ(s) within 20 days on a
mutually agreeable date and time on the categories as set forth in the notice
of deposition.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.