  Case Number:  22TRCV01028    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JORGE
  CHILEL, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01028




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ATLEE
  GEORGE POLLOCK, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 26,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Paul Carpenter,
Estate of Mary Pollock, deceased, and Atlee Pollock
Responding
Party:                  None
 
As
to plaintiff Jorge Chilel:
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Demand for Production of Documents
As
to plaintiff Everlido Chilel:
(4)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(5)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
(6)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Demand for Production of Documents
 
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.  
Plaintiffs Jorge Chilel and
Everlido Chilel are ordered to respond without objections to defendants’ Form
Interrogatories-General, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within
20 days.
Plaintiffs are ordered (1) to serve
on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’ Demand for
Inspection and Production of Documents and Things, Set One, and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendants’ demand, within 20 days. 
The court orders that each plaintiff
pay to defendants $380 in sanctions (for a total of $760), within 30 days.
BACKGROUND
Before the Court are a number of
discovery motions against Plaintiffs. 
The motions are necessitated as the Plaintiff simply failed to respond
to the discovery.  All motions note that
the six discovery requests were served on June 13, 2023.  Responses were due a month later on July 18,
2023.  Extensions were granted to the
Plaintiffs to comply with the discovery.
On October 24, 2022, plaintiffs
Jorge Chilel and Everlido Chilel filed a complaint against Atlee George
Pollock, Mary Pollock, and Paul Carpenter for motor vehicle negligence and
general negligence based on an incident that occurred on October 30, 2020, at
Vallon Dr. and Hawthorne Blvd., Rancho Palos Verdes.
On March 29, 2023, plaintiff filed
a FAC, identifying Estate of Mary Pollock, deceased as a defendant.
On September 29, 2023, the court
granted plaintiffs’ counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
Trial is set for January 22, 2025.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories 
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.  
            Request for Production of
Documents 
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Paul Carpenter, Estate of Mary Pollock, deceased, and Atlee Pollock request
that the court compel plaintiffs Jorge Chilel and Everlido Chilel to respond to
their initial form and special interrogatories and demand for inspection and
production of documents and things.
            Defendants
assert that on June 13, 2023, they propounded discovery requests on plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs did not respond by the July 18,
2023 due date.  Defense counsel granted
three extensions to August 14, August 28, and September 29, 2023.  After plaintiffs’ counsel was relieved of
counsel, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to plaintiffs on October
16, 2023 regarding the outstanding discovery responses.  To date, defense counsel has not received
responses.
            The
court finds that the discovery requests were properly served, and that
plaintiffs failed to serve responses. 
The motions are thus GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendants
request $360 for each motion, at a billing rate of $100/hr.  However, $200 request for each motion is for
attending the hearing.  But only one
appearance shall be necessary.  The
motions are essentially the same motion, filed as six motions, since the same
operative facts are alleged.  The court
finds that as against each Plaintiff separately, $380 is a reasonable amount to
be awarded against each plaintiff, for a total of $760 in sanctions.
ORDER

Plaintiff Everlido Chilel is
     ordered to serve within 20 days code complaint responses, without
     objection, to (A) Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, (B) Special
     Interrogatories and (C) Demand For Production Of Documents.
Plaintiff Everlido Chilel is
     ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant’s counsel in the amount of $380
     within 45 days of the date of service of notice of this order.
Plaintiff Jorge Chilel is
     ordered to serve within 20 days code complaint responses, without
     objection, to (A) Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, (B) Special
     Interrogatories and (C) Demand For Production Of Documents.
Plaintiff Jorge Chilel is
     ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant’s counsel in the amount of $380
     within 45 days of the date of service of notice of this order.
Moving party shall give notice.
