 Case Number:  23TRCV01336    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ALPINE
  CORPORATION, et al.,


 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01336




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
DCW
  LOGISTICS SERVICES, INC.,


 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 26,
2024
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Alpine Corporation
Responding Party:                  None
Motion
to Compel Further Discovery Responses
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED in part upon plaintiff’s
payment of additional $120 in filing fees. 
The motion is DENIED as to Form Interrogatory No. 50.1 and Special
Interrogatory No. 1.
Defendant
DCW Logistics Services, Inc. is ordered to respond further to plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 and Requests for Production, Nos. 1-7 within 20 days.
The court
awards sanctions in favor of plaintiff Alpine and against defendant and defense
counsel in the amount of $860 to be paid within 30 days. 
BACKGROUND
On April 27, 2023, plaintiffs
Alpine Corporation and Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s Subscribing to Policy
No. B0180PC1906604 filed a complaint against DCW Logistics Services, Inc. for
(1) breach of contract, (2) bailment, and (3) negligence. 
On May 2, 2023, plaintiffs filed a
FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP
§2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP §2031.220. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Alpine Corporation requests that the court compel defendant DCW Logistics
Services, Inc. to provide further responses and to produce responsive documents
to Form Interrogatories, Nos. 17.1 and 50.1, Special Interrogatory, No. 1, and
Requests for Production, Nos. 1-7.  
            As
an initial matter, plaintiff improperly combined three motions into one.
            Form
Interrogatories, No. 17.1 and 50.1
            No.
17.1:  In response to 17.1(d) to
identify all documents that support defendant’s response, defendant stated
“[a]fter a reasonable and diligent search, DCW is not in possession of the
documents responsive to this request . . . because the documents cannot be
located in DCW’s possession, custody, or control . . . . DCW believes that
information responsive to this request exists but it is not in DCW’s
possession, custody, or control.”
            Defendant’s
response is not responsive because defendant does not identify any documents to
support its response that plaintiffs were required to have their own insurance
and that defendant was only responsible for 50 cents per pound of the
merchandise. 
            No.
50.1:  In response to this
interrogatory, which requests that “for each agreement alleged in the
pleadings” that defendant identify each document, defendant identifies a
contract dated May 3, 2019 between DCW and plaintiff Alpine but does not know
of any person other than Alpine that has the agreement.  As to the other subparts, defendant responded
“not applicable.”
            The
court finds that defendant’s response is proper and is not deficient.
            Special
Interrogatory, No. 1
            This
interrogatory requests that defendant identify any and all documents related to
the Stock.  “Stock” is defined as the
goods held at the warehouse located at 6000 Rickenbacker Road, Commerce, that
were identified as damaged and unsellable in December 2019.
            Defendant
objected based on third-party privacy and that it was unable to identify
documents related to the Stock as defendant cannot locate the documents
pertaining to the stock.  
            The
court finds that defendant’s response is proper and not deficient as it states
that it cannot identify documents related to the Stock.  The objection based on third party privacy is
overruled.
            Requests
for Production, Nos. 1-7
                        No.
1:  all documents referenced in
defendant’s responses to special interrogatories.  Of note, defendant did not identify any
documents in its responses to special interrogatories.
                        No.
2:  all documents referenced in
defendant’s responses to form interrogatories. 
Of note, defendant identified only a contract dated May 3, 2019 between defendant
DCW and plaintiff Alpine, but stated that it does not have possession of such.
                        No.
3:  all documents pertaining to the
movement of the Stock within defendant’s warehouse
                        No.
4:  all documents pertaining to
inventories conducted between December 31, 2018 and January 1, 2020
                        No.
5:  all documents containing, relating
to, or regarding any statements taken by any person, including employees,
regarding the stock, between December 31, 2018 and January 1, 2020.  Of note, in response to Form Interrogatory
Nos. 12.1 and 12.3, defendant stated that no one was interviewed.
                        No.
6:  all copies of insurance policies that
provide coverage, or may potentially provide coverage, to defendant for
liability relating to the incident.  Of
note, in response to Form Interrogatory 4.1, defendant stated that there were
no insurance policies.
                        No.
7:  all documents pertaining to
defendant’s ownership.
In
response to the above, defendant stated, “[a]fter a reasonable and diligent
search, defendant DCW is not in possession of the documents responsive to this
request at the time this request is being made because the documents cannot be
located in DCW’s possession, custody, or control. . . .   DCW believes that information responsive to
this request exists, but it is not in DCW’s possession, custody, or control.”  As to Nos. 1-3 and 6, DCW also stated, “DCW
believes that Alpine is in possession of documents responsive to this request.”
“A representation of inability to
comply with [a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand.  This statement shall
also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control
of the responding party.  This statement
shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization
known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that
item or category of item.”  CCP
§2031.230.  
Although defendant states that a
“reasonable and diligent search” was made, defendant vaguely states that the
responsive documents are not in its possession because they “cannot be
located.”  This statement does not comply
with CCP §2031.230, as defendant does not state whether the documents have been
destroyed, lost, misplaced, or stolen or are no longer in defendant’s
possession.  Also, it is unclear as to
whether documents exist responsive to Nos. 1, 5, and 6 because defendant’s responses
to the interrogatories seem to indicate that no responsive documents exist.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED as to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 and Requests for
Production, Nos. 1-7.  The motion is
DENIED as to Form Interrogatory No. 50.1 and Special Interrogatory No. 1.
            Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030(a), “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an example of the
misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel further responses against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the
court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  CCP § §2030.300(d),
2031.310(h).
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a)
states:  “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.” 
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions against defendant and defense counsel in the amount
of $1,900 in drafting the motion and $1,200 in drafting a reply and attending
the hearing.  Plaintiff’s counsel does
not set forth the hourly rate, but it appears that it may be $200/hr.  The court awards sanctions against defendant
and defense counsel in the amount of $860 ($200/hr. x 4 hrs., filing fee).
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED in part upon
plaintiff’s payment of additional $120 in filing fees.
The motion is DENIED as to Form
Interrogatory No. 50.1 and Special Interrogatory No. 1.
Defendant
DSW Logistics is ordered to respond further to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 and
Requests for Production, Nos. 1-7 within 20 days.
            The
court awards sanctions in favor of plaintiff Alpine and against defendant and
defense counsel in the amount of $860 to be paid within 30 days. 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.