 Case Number:  23TRCV00572    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  B    Superior Court    of California County of Los    Angeles Southwest    District Torrance Dept. B       LILIANA    RAMIREZ,       Plaintiff,     Case No.:       23TRCV00572       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         NISSAN    NORTH AMERICA, INC.       Defendant.                                Hearing  Date:                          January 26, 2024 Moving Parties:                      Defendants Nissan North  America, Inc. Responding  Party:                  Plaintiff Liliana Ramirez Motion to Compel  Arbitration and Stay the Action               The court considered the moving,  opposition, and reply paper. RULING             The motion is DENIED. BACKGROUND On February 28, 2023, plaintiff  Liliana Ramirez filed a complaint against Nissan North America, Inc. for violations  of Song-Beverly Act and fraudulent inducement-concealment with respect to a  2020 Nissan Murano. LEGAL AUTHORITY Under CCP § 1281, a “written  agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy  thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds  as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of  a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written  agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to  arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the  respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to  arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party  to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .  with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related  transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common  issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to  the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .  with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may  refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention  or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among  the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .  . . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration  pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”   DISCUSSION             Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.  requests an order compelling binding arbitration and to stay the proceedings.  Nissan does not have its own agreement to  arbitrate with Plaintiff.             Existence of an Enforceable  Agreement “As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th  625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel  arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that  contract.  There is no public policy  favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to  arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th  1224, 1229. Defendant Nissan relies on a copy  of the Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”) attached to defense counsel Kara  Flageollet’s declaration that an arbitration agreement exists.  It was purportedly executed by plaintiff and  states, in part: “Any claim or dispute, whether in  contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of  this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),  between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which  arises out of or relates to [the] purchase or condition of this vehicle, this  contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such  relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your  or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court  action.” “You”  is defined as the Buyer.  “Us” refers to the  dealership Carson Nissan. As to whether Nissan can enforce  the arbitration agreement in the RISC, the parties agree that defendant is not a  signatory.  Rather, defendant argues that  it can enforce the arbitration provision under Nissan’s alleged employment and  agency relationship with Carson, making it a non-signatory beneficiary with  standing to enforce it.  Defendant  contends that the complaint alleges an employment or agency relationship  between Nissan and ten fictitiously named “Doe” defendants with respect to all  acts or omissions and describes the fictitiously named “Doe” entities as  defendants that “are in some manner responsible for the acts, occurrences, and  transactions set forth [in the complaint].”   Nissan asserts that Carson Nissan is within the categorical description  because plaintiff alleges the selling dealer is within Nissan’s network of  dealers through whom Nissan received actual or constructive notice of the  existence of alleged defects in plaintiff’s vehicle at the time of sale and  alleges that Carson intentionally concealed these alleged defects from  plaintiff at the time of sale.  Further,  Nissan asserts, plaintiff alleges that Nissan and the Doe defendants, including  Carson, had an employment relationship and were mutual agents of one another.    Defendant also argues that it can  enforce the arbitration agreement under equitable estoppel, citing to Felisilda  v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 486.   Defendant asserts that as in Felisilda,  the RISC “was the source of the [manufacturer’s] warranties at the heart of  this case” and that the manufacturer was authorized to enforce the agreement’s  arbitration clause as to plaintiff’s Song-Beverly Act claims under the  equitable estoppel doctrine.  Defendant  acknowledges that two recent decisions—Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023)  89 Cal. App. 5th 1324 (“Ochoa”) and Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.  (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 958—in conflict with Felisilda are  under review, but argues that Felisilda is better reasoned.   In opposition, plaintiff argues  that defendant is not an intended third-party beneficiary to the RISC and that Nissan  “admits” that the non-party signatory dealership, Carson Nissan, is not its  agent.  Plaintiff also cites to Ochoa,  which states that the sales contract was not the source of its manufacturer’s  warranties and that the arbitration provision does not show any consent by the  purchasers to arbitrate with unidentified third parties, such as vehicle  manufacturers.  Plaintiff also cites to Kielar  v. Hyundai Motor America, which directly contradicts and disputes the  decision in Felisilda.  Plaintiff  argues that Felisilda is not controlling and that the facts “are vastly  different from the case at hand.”    In reply, defendant reiterates its arguments  that the arbitration provision in the RISC is enforceable and that it has  standing under plaintiff’s allegations of an employment/mutual agency  relationship between Nissan and the selling dealership.  Further, defendant reiterates its position  that Felisilda is more persuasive, and that plaintiff’s claims are  intimately intertwined with the sales contract. The court rules as follows: Although the court finds the  existence of an agreement to arbitrate contained in the Retail Installment  Sales Contract between plaintiff and non-party dealership, the court finds that  defendant cannot enforce it as a non-signatory under any theory.  Indeed, Nissan has obviously chosen to not  include any arbitration provision in the warranty document that it provides to  the buyer as part of the buyer’s purchase of a Nissan vehicle. As to the doctrine of equitable  estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel  a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against  the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the  underlying contract obligations.”  JSM  Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 1222, 1237.  The doctrine applies:  (1) when the signatory must rely on the terms  of the written agreement containing the arbitration clause in asserting its  claims against the nonsignatory; or (2) when the signatory alleges  “substantially interdependent and concerted misconduct” by the nonsignatory and  a signatory and the alleged misconduct is “founded in or intimately connected  with the obligations of the underlying agreement.”  Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal. App.  4th 209, 218-219.  The first situation  exists “‘when the signatory to a written agreement containing an arbitration  clause “must rely on the terms of the written agreement in asserting [its] claims”  against the nonsignatory.’”  Id.  at 218 (citation omitted). The warranty is not “intertwined”  in any meaningful way with the sale contract.   On the contrary, the warranty is independent of the sales contract terms.  While the existence of the sale is relevant  to whether or not Song-Beverly is implicated, nothing about the terms of the  sale are otherwise implicated, and hence the warranty claims are not “intimately  founded in and intertwined” with the sales contract. The court follows the recent Second  District court of appeal case, Ford Motor Warranty Cases, Ochoa v. Ford  Motor Company (April 4, 2023) 2023 WL 2768484, which addresses whether a non-signatory  manufacturer can invoke the arbitration provision (which is identical to the  herein provision) in a sales contract and declines to follow the holding in Felisilda.  The appellate court rejected the  manufacturer’s positions as to equitable estoppel, third-party beneficiary, and  agency theories, stating:  “We agree with  the trial court that FMC could not compel arbitration based on plaintiffs’  agreements with the dealers that sold them the vehicles.  Equitable estoppel does not apply because, contrary  to FMC’s arguments, plaintiffs’ claims against it in no way rely on the  agreements.  FMC was not a third party of  those agreements as there is no basis to conclude the plaintiffs and their  dealers entered into them with the intention of benefitting FMC.  And FMC is not entitled to enforce the  agreements as an undisclosed principal because there is no nexus between  plaintiffs’ claims, any alleged agency between FMC and the dealers, and the  agreements.”  The court also follows Montemayor  v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 958, which determined  same, that a vehicle manufacturer could not compel arbitration of consumer  claims under an equitable estoppel argument because the claims against the  manufacturer were not dependent on and inextricable intertwined with the  obligations imposed by the sales contract but instead alleged an express  written warranty.  See also Kielar v.  Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal. App. 5th 614 (holding that trial  court incorrectly held equitable estoppel allowed a nonsignatory vehicle  manufacturer to rely on a purchaser’s sales contract with his dealership to  force the plaintiff’s causes of action into arbitration).             As  to whether defendant is a third-party beneficiary, the court finds that they  are not.  “A third-party beneficiary may  enforce a contract made for its benefit.”  CCP §1559.   “[A] review of this court’s third party beneficiary decisions reveals  that our court has carefully examined the express provisions of the contract at  issue, as well as all of the relevant circumstances under which the contract  was agreed to, in order to determine not only (1) whether the third party would  in fact benefit from the contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of  the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3)  whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action  against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract  and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.  All three elements must be satisfied to  permit the third party action to go forward.”   Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal. 5th 817,  830.  See also Montemayor, supra, that  held that the manufacturer was not a third- party beneficiary under CCP §1559  or the dealership’s sales contract because nothing in the contract or its  arbitration provision reflected intent to benefit the manufacturer, offered any  benefit to the manufacturer, or supported an inference the manufacturer had any  interest in the contract.  Here, defendant  has not shown that the sales contract or the arbitration provision meets any of  the elements.             As  to agency, nonsignatories to a contract may enforce a contractual arbitration  where there is sufficient agency or identity between the signatories and  nonsignatory.  See Molecular  Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal. App. 4th  696, 715.  Although plaintiff generally  alleges agency, defendant denies that the dealership is its agent.  Further, plaintiff is not relying upon the  obligations imposed by the RISC.  The  Court finds interesting the argument that the sales agreement arbitration  provision was intended to benefit Nissan, but Nissan, a very sophisticated entity,  that is providing its own written warranty provision choses to NOT include an  arbitration provision in its own warranty documentation.  Nissan’s sophistication and failure to include  an arbitration provision strongly suggests that it had chosen to not be  obligated to arbitrate these claims and it was not intended that it would  benefit from that provision in the sales contract. The motion is thus DENIED. Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the ruling.