 Case Number:  21STCV34296    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BRENT WING,  
  
         vs.
 
DALE
  AARON JONES, et al.


 Case No.:  21STCV34296
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  March 20, 2024



 
Defendant Elena
Talan’s demurrer to Plaintiff Brent Wing’s second amended complaint is overruled
as to the 1st and 8th causes of action and sustained with 20 days leave
to amend as to the 11th cause of action. 

Defendant Elena
Talan’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
Defendant Elena Talan (“Talan”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Brent
Wing’s (“Wing”) (“Plaintiff”) second amended complaint (“SAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f), 430.50(a).)  Talan also moves to
strike portions of the SAC.  (Notice of
MTS, pgs. 1-4; C.C.P. §§435, 436.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.)  The demurring party must identify all of the
causes of action it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal
support the basis of the deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading must
explain with legal support the basis for its position that the pleading is
legally sufficient or, if it is not, how the pleading could be amended to cure
any legal insufficiency.   (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(1).)
Talan’s counsel declares she attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s counsel via a meet and confer letter dated September 27, 2023, to
which she did not receive a response. 
(Decl. of Porter ¶12, Exh. 9.)  Talan’s
counsel declares she provided her availability for a telephonic meet and confer
and requested Plaintiff’s counsel provide their availability.  (Decl. of Porter ¶12.)  Talan’s counsel declares she sent multiple
follow up emails to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting a phone meet and confer and
received no response.  (Decl. of Porter
¶13, Exh. 13.)  
Talan’s counsel’s declaration is insufficient under C.C.P. §§430.41(a)
because she did not demonstrate an attempt to personally call Plaintiff’s
counsel, rather, she sent letters requesting Plaintiff’s counsel schedule a
telephonic meet and confer.  However, the
failure to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4).)  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Background
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s alleged entry into a lease
agreement (“Lease”) with Defendant Dale Aaron Jones (“Jones”) on or around
December 18, 2014, for real property located at 1815 N. Wilton Place, Los
Angeles, CA 90028 (“Subject Building”). 
(SAC ¶¶6, 7, 17, Exh. A.) 
Plaintiff alleges during his tenancy, ownership and management of the
Subject Building transferred from Non-moving Defendant Jones to Talan on or
around October 30, 2019.  (SAC ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Talan owned the Subject Building and managed the property with Defendants Alina
Kutsevol (“Alina”) and Ivan Kutsevol (“Ivan”). 
(SAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges he
was constructively evicted from the Subject Building on or around October 7,
2020.  (SAC ¶21.)
On September 16, 2021, Plaintiff filed his original complaint
(“Complaint”). On June 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint
(“FAC”).  On September 19, 2023, the
parties stipulated that Plaintiff be granted leave to file a second amended
complaint (“SAC”).  Plaintiff filed the
operative SAC on September 25, 2023, alleging twelve causes of action: (1)
breach of contract; (2) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) breach of
warranty of habitability; (4) negligence; (5) private nuisance; (6) violation
of Civil Code §1942.4; (7) violation of unfair business practices; (8) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (9) trespass to land; (10) trespass to
chattels; (11) retaliation; and (12) constructive eviction.  
On October 23, 2023, Talan filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike.  On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his opposition.  On March 13, 2024,
Talan filed her reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
In support of her demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC, Talan argues the 1st,
8th, and 11th causes of action and claim Plaintiff’s SAC fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pg. 3; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all
facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court
does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Breach of Contract (1st COA)
“To prevail on a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Plaintiff alleges resided at the Subject
Property pursuant to a written rental agreement whereby Plaintiff rented the
Subject Property for an agreed upon monthly sum of $565.00 (Five Hundred and
Sixty-Five Dollars).  (SAC ¶54.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that when ownership transferred from Jones to Talan, Jones also assigned his
interests and obligations under the lease to Talan.  (SAC ¶55.) 
Plaintiff alleges he performed the obligations under the Lease or has
otherwise been excused from said performance. 
(SAC ¶57.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached
the lease agreement with Plaintiff by, among other things, breaching the
implied warranty of habitability by failing to maintain the Subject Property in
a habitable and tenantable condition, despite being put on notice of the
uninhabitable and untenantable conditions. 
(SAC ¶58.)  Plaintiff alleges the Subject
Property’s uninhabitable conditions include dilapidation, unsanitary conditions,
vermin infestation, insufficient weather protection, inadequate electrical
wiring, dampness and mold, nuisance, and illegal units.  (SAC ¶59.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not properly remediate these issues to
the detriment of Plaintiff.  (SAC
¶59.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants began
massive construction near the Subject Property which fundamentally changed the
nature of Plaintiff’s tenancy.  (SAC
¶60.)  Plaintiff alleges the Subject
Property is an illegal unit and the Lease contemplated the leasing of a legal
premises, thus the Defendants also breached the Lease by failing to resolve
this issue.  (SAC ¶60.)  
Plaintiff alleges Defendants and/or
their agents collected rent from Plaintiff throughout the period during which
the substandard conditions listed above have existed.  (SAC ¶61.) 
Plaintiff alleges these substandard conditions at the Subject Property
were not caused by acts or omissions of Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶62.) 
Plaintiff alleges as a result of the Defendants’ actions and inaction,
Plaintiff suffered damages in an amount to be proven at trial.   (SAC ¶63.)
A landlord’s sale, assignment or other
transfer of ownership does not affect an existing lease. Instead, the
transferee, in effect, “steps into the landlord’s shoes.”  (Kirk Corp. v. First American Title Co. (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 785, 809; see also, Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1317, 1328.)  Thus, the successor ordinarily remains bound
by all the terms and conditions in the lease and the tenant, in turn, becomes a
tenant of the landlord’s successor, obligated to the successor under all of the
tenant covenants in the lease. (See Chapman v. Great Western Gypsum Co.
(1932) 216 Cal. 420, 427; Peter Kiewit Sons’ Co. v. Richmond
Redevelop. Agency (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 435, 441; Rosenkranz v. Pellin (1950)
99 Cal.App.2d 650, 652-653.)  
Here, the transfer of ownership and
management of the Subject Building from Jones to Talan is noted in SAC ¶¶19 and
55.  Further, Plaintiff attached a copy
of the Lease to his SAC, which states the material terms and conditions of the contract.  (SAC ¶17, Exh. A.)  Plaintiff alleges his full performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance. 
(SAC ¶57.)  Plaintiff alleges Talan’s
breach of the lease by, among other things, breaching the implied warranty of
habitability by failing to maintain the Subject Property in a habitable and
tenantable condition, despite being put on notice of the uninhabitable and untenantable
conditions. (SAC ¶58.)  Plaintiff also
alleges breach of the lease because the Subject Property is an illegal unit and
the Lease contemplated the leasing of a legal premises, and the Defendants also
breached the Lease by failing to resolve this issue.  (SAC ¶60.)
Talan’s argument that the cause of action
for breach of contract duplicative of the cause of action for breach of the
warranty of habitability is unavailing. 
The two causes of action have distinct elements, and distinct causes of
action can be alleged on the same factual circumstances.  Further, Talan fails to cite case law in
support of the proposition that facts shared between a cause of action for
breach of contract and a cause of action for breach of the warranty of
habitability cannot be alleged for both.
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (8th COA)
“The elements of a prima facie case for
the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th
999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted; CACI 1600.)  “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.”  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921, quoting Newby v. Alto Riviera Apartments
(1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 288, 297.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ actions
and failure to act, as detailed above, including, but not limited to, the
Defendants’ refusal or failure to repair all the habitability and safety
issues, despite numerous pleas for repairs from Plaintiff, represents
outrageous and malicious conduct.  (SAC
¶118.)  Plaintiff alleges he relied on
Defendants to make these repairs and the Defendants’ refusal to do so was an
abuse of their position as the Subject Property’s landlord.  (SAC ¶118.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants engaged in bothersome construction near the
Subject Property while Plaintiff still resided at the Subject Property and Talan
attempted to remove Plaintiff from the Subject Property against his will.  (SAC ¶119.) 
Plaintiff alleges Talan made false statements about the timeliness and
remittance of Plaintiff’s rent payments and then entered the Subject Property
and discarded many of Plaintiff’s valuable possessions.  (SAC ¶119.) 

Plaintiff alleges Defendants knew that
Plaintiff lived in the Subject Property with the dangerous and uninhabitable
conditions, Defendants knew that Plaintiff remained in the Subject Property during
his construction project, and 
Talan knew that she was making false
accusations about Plaintiff’s payments, willfully invading Plaintiff’s privacy,
and illegally discarding Plaintiff’s belongings.  (SAC ¶120.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants acted with a reckless disregard to the
probability that Plaintiff would suffer severe emotional distress; including
annoyance, mental anguish, anxiety, worry, fear, discomfort, loss of enjoyment
of life, and humiliation as a result of the Subject Property’s uninhabitable
conditions, which the Defendants created and allowed to continue, the
construction project near the Subject Property, and Talan’s conduct.  (SAC ¶121.) 

Plaintiff alleges despite being aware
that Plaintiff was timely paying rent and that the Subject Property was an
illegal unit, Defendants started eviction proceedings against the Plaintiff to
remove him from the Subject Property.  (SAC
¶122.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’
conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s severe emotional distress,
and Plaintiff suffered mental injury and loss of use and enjoyment of his
rental home as a result.  (SAC ¶123.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendants consciously disregarded
Plaintiff’s rights and their conduct towards Plaintiff was intentional,
malicious, and oppressive, and under Civil Code §3294 and Plaintiff is entitled
to punitive damages.  (SAC ¶124.)
          Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges various habitability defects; Defendants’ failure to
address the habitability defects; and that Plaintiff suffered annoyance, mental
anguish, anxiety, worry, fear, discomfort, loss of enjoyment of life, and
humiliation as a result of Talan’s conduct. 
(FAC ¶127.)  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleges Talan abused a relation or position which gives her power
to damage the Plaintiff’s interest.  (SAC
¶¶19-20, 48, 52, 119, 120, 122; Stoiber, 101 Cal.App.3d at pg. 921.)
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 8th cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress is overruled.
 
Retaliation (11th COA)
Civil Code §1942.5(a)(2) provides, in
part, 
The lessor may not recover possession of a dwelling in any action or
proceeding, cause the lessee to quit involuntarily, increase the rent, or
decrease any services within 180 days of [¶] . . . the lessee, in good faith, .
. . [filing] a written complaint, or an oral complaint which is registered or
otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate agency, of which the lessor
has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction of a condition relating to
tenantability . . . [¶] [or] [a]fter the date of an inspection or issuance of a
citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph (2) of which the
lessor did not have notice. 
 
(Civil Code §§1942.5(a)(2), (3).)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants Talan,
Ivan, and Alina began evicting tenants in November 2019 to conduct construction
and Plaintiff feared that he would be forced to leave or that his unit would be
torn down with his belongings still inside. 
(SAC ¶142.)  Plaintiff alleges on
November 8, 2019, Defendants began eviction proceedings against Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶143.) 
Plaintiff alleges throughout January 2020, the Los Angeles Housing and
Community Investment Department (“HCIDLA”) sent numerous letters to Defendants
stating that their eviction notices to Plaintiff and the other tenants were not
sufficient as they did not state the reason for eviction.  (SAC ¶144.) 

Plaintiff alleges on or around January 8,
2020, complaint was filed with HCIDLA for unregistered units and the illegal
eviction attempt of tenants.  (SAC
¶145.)  Plaintiff alleges the illegal
renting of the Subject Building and Subject Property occurred during Jones’
ownership and management of the Subject Property and continued during Talan’s
and Ivan’s and Alina’s respective ownership and management of the Subject
Building.  (SAC ¶145.)  Plaintiff alleges on or around January 10,
2020, Talan issued an improper eviction notice to Plaintiff with a notice date
of January 7, 2020.  (SAC ¶146.)
Plaintiff alleges on or around March 3,
2020, Plaintiff sent a letter to HCIDLA about the Subject Property’s electrical
issues, the Defendants not cleaning the many pine needles on the premises’ walkways
(which had caused him to slip and fall), hazards such as needles next to
gasoline and the battery from smoke detector removed during construction, and
bars on his windows which were not proper as they did not have a release which
could cause him to be trapped in his apartment if there were a fire or other
emergency.  (SAC ¶147.)
Plaintiff alleges on or around May 11,
2020, Talan entered the Subject Property without consent or permission and
threw out much of Plaintiff’s personal property refusing to cash Plaintiff’s
rent checks and continuing with their illegal eviction proceedings.  (SAC ¶148.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants, and each of them, willfully, knowingly,
and purposefully retaliated against Plaintiff for asserting his rights
regarding the aforementioned acts and omissions of Defendants, and each of
them, by taking certain actions, or failing to act, in a manner that was
intended to actually and substantially harass Plaintiff and to evict and/or
constructively evict Plaintiff from the Subject Property.  (SAC ¶149.)
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ retaliatory acts, Plaintiff was injured in his emotional
health and suffered fear, discomfort, mental and physical injuries and mental distress
in an amount to be proven at trial.  (SAC
¶150.)  Plaintiff alleges as a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ retaliatory acts, Plaintiff was injured by the
Defendants’ deprivation of a safe, secure, healthy, and comfortable dwelling for
Plaintiff.  (SAC ¶151.)
Plaintiff alleges despite failing to
ever remedy any of the issues noted by the HCIDLA, Defendants continued with
their eviction proceedings.  (SAC
¶152.)  Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff was
constructively evicted in or around October 7, 2020.  (SAC ¶153.) 
Plaintiff alleges due to the Defendants’ conduct and the Subject
Property’s uninhabitable conditions, Plaintiff was constructively evicted from
the Subject Property on or around October 7, 2020.  (SAC ¶154.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ retaliatory acts and omissions were
knowing, intentional, willful, and malicious, and were done with full knowledge
of the discomfort, fear, distress, and annoyance such retaliatory acts would
cause Plaintiff, and were further done in conscious disregard of the rights of
Plaintiff. Plaintiff therefore is entitled to exemplary damages in such an
amount that is adequate to punish and make an example of Defendants, and each
of them, and are further entitled to attorney’s fees in accordance with Civil
Code §1942.5.  (SAC ¶155.)
Plaintiff fails to allege that when Plaintiff
sent a written complaint to HCIDLA for the purpose of obtaining correction of a
condition relating to tenantability, that Talan was put on notice of the
Complaint and that any inspection or citation resulted from the complaint.  (See SAC ¶147.)  Plaintiff fails to allege any inspection or
citation resulted from his complaint to HCIDLA. 
(See SAC ¶147.)
Accordingly, Talan’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 11th cause of action for retaliation is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Talan’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is overruled as to the 1st and 8th causes of action
and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 11th cause of
action.  
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
B.    Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the
demurrer, Talan’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  