  Case Number:  21STCV24843    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BEAR
  VALLEY 2005, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
MECHANICS
  BANK.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV24843
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 20, 2024



 
Defendant Mechanics Bank’s motion to quash
the notice to appear at trial served by Plaintiff Bear Valley 2005, LLC, as it
pertains to Scott Givens, Doug Lutz, John DeCero, and Nathan Duda, and for a
protective order is denied. 
Defendant’s unopposed motion for
leave to amend its Answer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is granted.  Defendant is ordered to file the proposed First
Amended Answer with the Court within 10 days.
 
Defendant
Mechanics Bank (“Mechanics Bank”) (“Defendant”) moves to quash the notice to
appear at trial (“Notice”) served by Plaintiff Bear Valley 2005, LLC, (“Bear
Valley”) (“Plaintiff”) as it pertains to Scott Givens, Doug Lutz, John DeCero,
and Nathan Duda (“Bank Executives”), and for a protective order.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§1987.1.)  In the alternative, Defendant
moves for an order modifying and limiting Plaintiff’s notice.  (Notice of Motion Quash, pg. 2.)
Defendant
moves unopposed for leave to amend its Answer and file an Amended Answer
to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint (“FAC”) to set forth a single additional
affirmative defense based on failure of condition precedent.  (Notice of Motion Amend, pgs. 1-2.)
 
1.    
Motion
to Quash
CRC
Violation
CRC
Rule 3.1354(b) provides, in part, “All written objections to evidence must be
served and filed separately from the other papers in support of or in
opposition to the motion.”  (CRC Rule
3.1354(b).)
Defendant’s
evidentiary objection filed with its reply to the motion to quash was not filed
served and filed separately from the other papers in support of its reply.  Therefore, the Court will not rule on
Defendant’s evidentiary objection.
 
Background
On
June 28, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant with the Notice.  (Decl. of Cronin ¶10, Exh. 1.)[1]  The Notice commands attendance of the
following seven individuals: (1) Lourdes Garcia Raval (“Raval”); (2) Nikki
Merrifield-Olivia (“Merrifield-Olivia”); (3) Kim Gray (“Gray”); (4) Scott
Givans (“Givans”); (5) Doug Lutz (“Lutz”); (6) John DeCero (“DeCero”); and (7)
Nathan Duda (“Duda”).
Defendant
filed the instant motion on July 18, 2023. 
Plaintiff filed its opposition on July 31, 2023.  Defendant filed its reply on February 2,
2024.
 
Legal
Standard
C.C.P.
§1987.1(a) provides, 
If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.
 
(C.C.P.
§1987.1(a).)
C.C.P.
§1987(b) provides: 
In the case of the
production of a party to the record of any civil action or proceeding or of a
person for whose immediate benefit an action or proceeding is prosecuted or
defended or of anyone who is an officer, director, or managing agent of any
such party or person, the service of a subpoena upon any such witness is not
required if written notice requesting the witness to attend before a court, or
at a trial of an issue therein, with the time and place thereof, is served upon
the attorney of that party or person. The notice shall be served at least 10
days before the time required for attendance unless the court prescribes a
shorter time. If entitled thereto, the witness, upon demand, shall be paid
witness fees and mileage before being required to testify. The giving of the
notice shall have the same effect as service of a subpoena on the witness, and
the parties shall have those rights and the court may make those orders,
including the imposition of sanctions, as in the case of a subpoena for attendance
before the court.
 
(C.C.P.
§1987(b).)
The
Apex Doctrine is a discovery rule applicable to motions for protective orders
brought under the Discovery Act.  A party
seeking to depose “a corporate president or other official at the highest level
of corporate management [“apex”] . . . [must] show[ ] good cause that the
official has unique or superior personal knowledge of discoverable
information.”  (Liberty Mutual Insurance
Co. v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286.) 
The
party moving for the deposition shall exhaust less intrusive discovery methods
before requesting such deposition.  (Id.
at pg. 1287.)  Less intrusive
discovery methods may include interrogatories directed at the apex, the
deposition of lower-level employees with relevant information, and a deposition
of the corporation itself.  (Id. at
pg. 1289.)  The trial court should consider
whether such requirements have been met before ordering that an apex be
produced for deposition.  (Id.)
 
Discussion
Defendant
concedes that Plaintiff took the depositions of three lower-level employees Gray,
Merrifield-Olivia, and Raval, whose names are included in the Notice.  (Motion, pg. 8.)  
Plaintiff
has also served requests for production of documents and interrogatories
seeking Defendant’s documents and information regarding the termination of the swap
interest rate program and the discontinuation of loans secured by retail
shopping centers.  (Decl. of Carvalho
¶3.)  Plaintiff’s discovery requests have
led it to conclude that the testimonies of the Bank Executives are necessary to
establish: (1) how the swap program termination was communicated to Raval and
Goff; (2) what was the corporate policy with respect to extending Rabobank
loans that has swap rate extension options; (3) on whose authority did Raval
inform Plaintiff that the swap program was no longer available after it sought
the extension at the swap rate; (4) what was the corporate policy with respect
to the making and extending loans secured by retail shopping centers; and (5)
on whose authority did Raval inform Plaintiff in the spring of 2020 that Defendant
would not extend the loan because it was no longer making “retail loans.”  (See Decl. of Carvalho ¶¶6-11, Exhs.
1-4.)
Defendant
has not submitted admissible evidence to this Court demonstrating that none of
the four Bank Executives have any personal knowledge of the facts in this
action and that each will suffer hardship if required to testify at trial.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion is denied.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s
motion to quash the notice to appear at trial served by Plaintiff as it
pertains to Bank Executives, and for a protective order is denied. 
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion
for Leave to Amend Answer to FAC
Legal Standard
Courts
have a liberal policy in favor of permitting amendments.  (Mabie v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
581, 596.)  The policy favoring
amendments is so strong that denial of a request for leave to amend is rarely
justified.  (Id.)  Requests for leave to amend will normally only
be denied where the moving party has been dilatory in seeking leave to amend
and where the delay in bringing the motion has resulted in prejudice to the
opposing party.  (Hirsa v. Superior
Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d
486, 490.)  A mere showing of
unreasonable delay by the moving party without any showing of resulting
prejudice to the opposing party is an insufficient ground to justify denial of
a motion.  (Higgins v. Del Faro
(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)
Courts
show even greater liberality toward motions to amend answers than
motions
to amend other pleadings, because “a defendant denied leave to amend is
permanently deprived of a defense.”  (Hulsey
v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150, 1159.)
The
form and content of a notice of motion for leave to amend are governed by the
rules governing motions generally. (C.C.P. §1010.)  The motion must include a copy of the
proposed amendment (CRC, Rule 3.1324(a)(1)), and identify by page, paragraph,
and line number any additions to and deletions from the prior pleading (CRC,
Rule 3.1324(a)(2), (3)). 
 
          Discussion
          Defendant’s motion for leave to amend
its Answer and file a First Amended Answer (“FAA”) is granted.  Defendant’s motion substantially complies with CRC
Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion includes a copy of the proposed FAA.  (Decl.
of Cronin ¶10, Exh. 1.)   Defendant’s motion sets forth affirmative
defense proposed to be added, but does not state where, by page, paragraph, and
line number, the proposed additions/deletions are located.  (Motion, pg. 3;
CRC Rule 3.1324(a)(3).)  However, Defendant’s proposed FAA highlights in
yellow the affirmative defense to be added. 
(See Decl. of Cronin ¶10, Exh. 1 at ¶13.)[2]
Defendant’s motion substantially complies with CRC
Rule 3.1324(b).  Defendant’s counsel
submitted a separate declaration that specifies the effect of the amendment and
explains why the amendment is necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Cronin ¶¶12-13.) 
Defendant asserts the amendment is necessary because Mechanics Bank has a
viable affirmative defense based on failure of condition precedent. 
(Decl. of Cronin ¶13.)
Defendant’s counsel states when the facts giving
rise of the amended affirmative defense was discovered and why the request for
amendment was not made earlier; Defendant’s counsel declares, “The facts giving
rise to the proposed amendment were known to Mechanics Bank since the inception
of this litigation. The proposed amendment is not intended to set forth new
facts, but a new legal theory. Heretofore Mechanics Bank had been focused on
different legal theories.”  (Decl. of Cronin
¶14.)  Defendant’s counsel declares, “[i]n June of 2022, Mechanics Bank
filed a motion for summary judgment that was based entirely on Plaintiff’s
failure to give written notice of its election to extend the subject loan (a condition
precedent). Plaintiff’s opposition to that motion never argued that Mechanics
Bank was barred from raising such a defense for failure to expressly plead a
failure of condition precedent affirmative defense in its answer.”  (Decl. of Cronin ¶15.)
Plaintiff will not be prejudiced by this amendment
because Plaintiff has known that Mechanics Bank has been asserting such a
defense prior to this proposed amendment.
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for
leave to amend its Answer and file a FAA is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Defendant’s
unopposed motion for leave to amend its Answer is granted.  Defendant is ordered to file the proposed FAA
with the Court with the Court within 10 days of this order.
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  