  Case Number:  23STCV09018    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  39 Leia Brim v.
Delrick McElwee
Case No.
23STCV09018
Order to Show
Cause re: Sanctions
Motion to Compel
Order Striking
Jury Demand 
 
            The Court
posts this order on October 23, 2023, in advance of the hearing on October 26,
2023, at 8:30 a.m.  The Court provides
notice: Any party who does not appear at the hearing, either remotely or
in-person, shall waive the right to be heard and shall submit to this tentative
order or any amendment of this tentative order. 
The Court authorizes remote appearances. 
Any party who wishes to appear remotely but is experiencing difficulty
may contact the Court’s clerk, Roberto Mendoza, at (213) 633-0159.  
 
Plaintiff Leia Brim (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against her former husband, Delrick McElwee (“Defendant”),
asserting a cause of action for “intentional tort.”  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “harassed”
her and “made terrorists threats frightening and scaring [her], violating [her]
civil rights, and causing [her] traumatic psychological harm, resulting in
extreme mental and emotional distress to [her].”  The Court rules as follows on the pending
matters:
 
            1.         Order to Show Cause re: Sanctions –
Plaintiff did not appear at the case management conference, and the Court
issued an Order to Show Cause why sanctions in the amount of $500 or less
should not be imposed.  (See Court’s
Minute Order, dated August 23, 2023.)  In
response, Plaintiff states that she had car trouble and could not appear at the
hearing, and she did not call the Court’s clerk because her cell phone had
insufficient power.  Good cause having
been shown, the Court discharges the Order to Show Cause.  The Court orders Plaintiff to contact the
Court’s clerk and Defendant if she is unable to appear at a hearing.
 
            2.         Motion to Compel – Plaintiff seeks to
compel responses to form interrogatories, set one, as well as monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2,500.  Plaintiff
did not file a proof of service.  Plaintiff’s
motion includes a declaration stating: “I sent form interrogatories set-1 to
defendant via U.S. mail on May 16, 2023.” 
Parties may not serve pleadings themselves.  Rather, parties must serve pleadings by using
a third-party who is over the age of 18 years old and is not a witness or
otherwise involved in this case, e.g., the Sheriff’s Department, a registered
process server, a family member or friend, etc. 
Therefore, the motion is denied without prejudice to Plaintiff
re-serving the discovery requests.
 
            3.         Striking the Jury Demand – Per Code of
Civil Procedure section 631, a party must post jury fees or file a request for
a waiver of jury fees before the case management conference.  Plaintiff failed to do so.  On August 23, 2023, the Court ordered: “Jury
Fees shall be posted within ten (10) days or Plaintiff shall request a fee
waiver within thirty (30) days or she shall waive the right to a jury trial.”  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated August 23,
2023.)  The Court’s clerk served this
order upon Plaintiff that same date, and Plaintiff has neither posted jury fees
nor sought a waiver of jury fees. 
Therefore, the Court strikes Plaintiff’s demand for a jury trial and
orders that this trial shall proceed as a bench trial.  This order is without prejudice to Plaintiff
seeking relief from jury waiver by filing a noticed motion.
 
            4.         Notice – The Court’s clerk shall
provide notice.  
 
            