 Case Number:  24STCV06346    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  82 First
Technology Federal Credit Union v. Matthew Christopher Thomas, et al.
Case No. 24STCV06346
Order Denying Application for Writ of
Possession 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff First Technology Federal Credit Union (“Plaintiff”) moves for a
writ of possession against Defendant Matthew Christopher Thomas (“Defendant”) over
the following property: 2022 Tesla Model X, Vehicle Identification Number
7SAXCBE69NF333811 (the “Vehicle”).  Plaintiff
has not shown probable cause to believe that the Vehicle is located at the
address specified in the application, as required by statute.  (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 512.010(b)(4),
512.080.)   Accordingly, the application
is denied without prejudice.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing
a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.010(a).)
            
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b), the application
must be submitted under oath and include:
 
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the Defendant must be
served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of
Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.030.)  “The writ
will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid
and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 511.090.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Probable Validity of
Plaintiff’s Claim
 
Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession based on its claims for breach of
contract and money lent.  On or about
November 29, 2022, Defendant entered into Loan and Security Agreements (the
“Contract”) with Plaintiff to finance the purchase of the Vehicle.  In consideration for an auto loan in the
amount of $154,310.78, Defendant granted Plaintiff a security interest in the
Vehicle and agreed to pay interest of 12.0300% per year.  (Dexheimer Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. 1 and 2.)  Defendant defaulted on the Contract by failing
to make payments when due, and there is presently a balance due of $153,981.28,
plus interest.  (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. 3.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has satisfied this
requirement.  
 
B.        Wrongful Detention
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(2), the
application must include “a showing that the property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.” 
Under the Contract, Plaintiff has the right to repossess the Vehicle in
the event of default.  (Dexheimer Decl.
Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff has demanded that
Defendant surrender the Vehicle, and Defendant has refused to do so.  (Id. ¶ 11.) 
Therefore, Plaintiff has satisfied this requirement.    
 
C.        Description and Value of
Property
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(3), the
application must include a particular description of the property and a
statement of its value.  Plaintiff has
provided a particular description of the property, by make, and VIN
number.  Plaintiff has also given a
statement as to value.  Therefore,
Plaintiff has satisfied this requirement. 

 
D.        Probable Location of the
Vehicle  
 
The court denies this application without prejudice because Plaintiff
does not include sufficient evidence of “the location of the property and, if
the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to
be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to
believe that such property is located there,” as required by Code of Civil
Procedure section 512.010(b)(4). 
Plaintiff’s application seeks a writ of possession directing the levying
officer to take the Vehicle from “Defendant’s last known residence address,
which is a private place located at 4216 W. 59th Place, Los Angeles, CA 90043.”  (Appl. ¶ 6.)  However, the declaration of Shaun Dexheimer
is not sufficient to establish probable cause to believe the vehicle is located
at that address.  The declaration merely
states: “I am informed and believe that the Vehicle is currently in the
possession of [Defendant] at his last known residence address” and that
“Plaintiff is informed and believes that Defendant is concealing the Vehicle at
his residence so Plaintiff cannot gain access to it.”  (Dexheimer Decl. ¶ 10.)  The declaration provides no attribution for
this information and appears to be based upon hearsay.  Of equal concern, the record suggests that Plaintiff
does not, in fact, reside at that address. 
Although Defendant listed the 59th Place address on his contract,
Plaintiff has been personally serving Defendant at a different address: 3988
East Hardy Street, Apartment 132, in Inglewood, California 90303.  The record does not clarify this
inconsistency.  Accordingly, Plaintiff
does not establish sufficient probable cause to believe the vehicle is located
at the address on the application.    
 
E.         Turnover Order
 
Plaintiff requests a turnover order. 
(See Memorandum 4:6-14.)  Section 512.070
states: “If a writ of possession is issued, the court may also issue an order
directing the defendant to transfer possession of the property to the
plaintiff. Such order shall contain a notice to the defendant that failure to
turn over possession of such property to plaintiff may subject the defendant to
being held in contempt of court.”  “Thus
a ‘turnover’ order, issued pursuant to section 512.070, is not a
separate remedy but rather an alternative means of enforcing a writ of
possession.”  (Edwards v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.)  Because the court is denying the application
for a writ of possession, the court cannot issue a turnover order.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the court denies the application for a writ of possession
without prejudice.  Plaintiff’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 