  Case Number:  JCCP5101    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  11 Southern California Clergy Cases (JCCP 5101)   Doe OG 1003 (30-2019-01120133-CU-PO-NJC)   Motion for Protective Order   Date:                           9/25/24   Time:                          9:00  am   Moving Party:           Roman Catholic Bishop of Orange  (“RCBO”) and Mater Dei High School (“Mater Dei”) (collectively “Defendants”)   Opposing Party:        John Doe OG 1003 (“Plaintiff”)   Department:              11   Judge:                         David  S. Cunningham III ________________________________________________________________________   TENTATIVE RULING   Defendants’ objections are overruled, and Defendants’ motion for  protective order is denied.   BACKGROUND   This action (30-2019-01120133-CU-PO-NJC) is part of the coordinated Southern California Clergy Cases  (JCCP 5101).  Plaintiff claims a priest  named Father Michael Harris sexually abused him at Mater Dei in Orange County  in 1978 when he was a minor.  Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants failed to protect him despite having actual or  constructive knowledge of Harris’s pedophilia.   Here, Defendants seek a  protective order regarding documents pertaining to Harris’s canonical  laicization.   DISCUSSION   Plaintiff requested production of  “all documents associated with all laicization processes involving  Harris.”  (Opposition, p. 1.)   Defendants objected, relying on  the clergy-penitent privilege, church-autonomy doctrine, and the First  Amendment.  (See id. at pp. 1-2.)   The discovery referee overruled  the objections and recommended that the laicization documents be produced.  (See Reck Decl., Ex. 3.)   In response, Defendants filed  this motion.   Prior Actions   The Court notes that similar  objections were made and rejected in Clergy I (JCCP 4286), II  (JCCP 4297), and III (JCCP 4359).   (See id. at Exs. 4-6.)   Overbroad   To start, Plaintiff’s request is  overbroad.  Plaintiff claims the alleged  abuse occurred in 1978 whereas Harris’s laicization took place in 2001.  (See Motion, p. 1.)  The purpose of the discovery request is to  obtain documents showing notice to Defendants at or before the time of the  alleged abuse.  Production, if any,  should be limited to laicization documents that relate to such notice.  Laicization documents unrelated to such  notice should not be ordered produced (it may be necessary to review the documents  in camera to determine which should be produced and which should be withheld).   Clergy-Penitent Privilege   “[A] member of the clergy,  whether or not a party, has a privilege to refuse to disclose a penitential  communication if he or she claims the privilege.”  (Evid. Code § 1034.)     “In order for a statement to be  privileged, it must satisfy all of the conceptual requirements of a penitential  communication[.]”  (People v. Edwards  (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 1358, 1362.)  One,  “it must be intended to be in confidence[.]”   (Id. at 1362-1363.)  Two, “it must  be made to a member of the clergy who in the course of his or her religious  discipline or practice is authorized or accustomed to hear such communications[.]”  (Id. at 1363.)  Three, the clergy member must have “a duty  under the discipline or tenets of the church, religious denomination or  organization to keep such communications secret.”  (Ibid.) (People v. Edwards (1988) 203  Cal.App.3d 1358, 1362–1363.)    Defendants contend the laicization  documents “qualify as penitential communications” because:   In 2001, the  Diocese’s then-Judicial Vicar, Msgr. Douglas Cook, received confidential  communications from persons (including witnesses) who provided information for  the purpose of Harris’s laicization. [Citation.] At that time, Msgr. Cook was a  member of the clergy and was specifically authorized to hear these  communications in accordance with the Roman Catholic Church’s canon law.  [Citation.] Under canon law, Msgr. Cook had a duty to keep those communications  confidential. [Citation.] Given the plain text of the Evidence Code, nothing  more is required to show that these communications fall under clergy-penitent  privilege, and the Diocese need not disclose these files.   (Motion, p. 5; see also Reply,  pp. 2-3.)   Plaintiff disagrees.  He claims:   [T]he  clergy-penitent privilege did not apply from the beginning of Fr. Harris’  termination. The process started by Fr. Harris sending a letter to the bishop  that addressed the letter to the Pope, because needed the bishop to be his  messenger. [Citation.] This is because Fr. Harris could ultimately only be  terminated by the Pope, but he needed the Bishop to be his messenger.  [Citation.] This process is inherently not “in confidence,” as Fr. Harris made  communications, knowingly, in the presence of the bishop, a third party.    Fr. Harris, a priest  seeking termination, knew this process did not entail strict confidentiality as  evidenced by his knowledge of how to start the process. Moreover, any  protection that could have been left after this communication, which is none,  would have been waived because Fr. Harris consented to the Bishop disclosing  the communication to the Pope. [Citation.]   The remainder of the  process is also never protected by privilege, or is waived if there is any  protection, because each step in the process requires disclosure to a different  individual or group of individuals. In this case specifically, the bishop instructed  Msgr. Cook to conduct the investigation. Msgr. Cook conducted interviews,  gathered documents, and otherwise obtained any information relevant to Fr.  Harris’ request to be terminated. Msgr. Cook then sent all communications he  obtained back to the bishop, who then forwarded them to the Judicial Vicar and  the notary, where they thereafter went to the Vatican’s United States’  delegate, who forwarded them to a group of Vatican Officials, who then  forwarded them to the Pope, who then sent everything back to the bishop. The  process that was used is inherently non-confidential – it is group work with  multiple levels of review.   (Opposition, pp. 4-5.)   Plaintiff’s argument is based on Roman  Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th  417 (“Archbishop”).  The Los  Angeles Diocese and two priests moved to quash document subpoenas in a  grand-jury proceeding about child-molestation allegations against the  priests.  The Second District Court of  Appeal found the clergy-penitent privilege inapplicable:   The record  demonstrates the participants in the Archdiocese's troubled-priest  interventions knew any communications likely were to be shared with more than  one person. According to the Archdiocese's declared policy, priests  experiencing psychological and sexual problems were encouraged to discuss those  problems with the archbishop and the Vicar for Clergy. Furthermore, the  subpoenaed documents themselves amply demonstrate that communications to and  from the individual priests were routinely shared by Cardinal Mahony, whoever  happened to be the current Vicar for Clergy, and sometimes other Archdiocese  employees as well.   This sharing  of information violates Evidence Code section 1032's requirement that the penitent's communication be “made  in confidence, in the presence of no third person so far as the penitent is  aware,” to a cleric who is obligated “to keep those communications secret.” The  fact both parties to the original communication knew it likely would be  transmitted to a third person vitiated ab initio any privilege under Evidence  Code section 1032, or, alternatively, constituted a waiver of the privilege  under Evidence Code section 912, subdivision (a).   Here, the  record demonstrates the District Attorney met the burden of rebutting Evidence  Code section 917’s presumption of confidentiality by proving the Priests were  aware the communications were likely to be transmitted to third persons.   The  Archdiocese argues these communications were not transmitted “to any third  party, that is, someone outside of the bishop (or his alter ego, the Vicar for  Clergy).” The contention is unavailing. We reject the argument that just  because Cardinal Mahony considers the Vicar for Clergy his surrogate for  dealing with troubled priests, there was no violation of Evidence Code section  1032’s requirement that the communication be “made in confidence, in the  presence of no third person so far as the penitent is aware, to a member of the  clergy who ... has a duty to keep those communications secret.”    (Archbishop, supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at  444-445, footnote omitted.)   Defendants  contend the Second District’s analysis is “unconstitutional” in light of a  newer case called Tandon v. Newsom (2021) 593 U.S. 61.  (Motion, p. 7.)  In Tandon, the High Court analyzed  California’s Covid-19 Blueprint System, which restricted at-home religious  gatherings yet permitted people to meet at secular locations.  The High Court imposed an injunction and  found that the plaintiffs’ claims “trigger[ed] strict scrutiny” since the  system treated “comparable secular activity  more favorably than religious exercise.”   (Tandon, supra, 593 U.S. at 62.)  Defendants assert that the Evidence Code  treats the attorney-client, physician-patient, psychotherapist-patient, and  counselor-victim privileges more favorably than the clergy-penitent privilege  because those privileges extend to “reasonably necessary” disclosures to third  parties.  (See Motion, pp. 6-7; see also  Reply, pp. 3-5.)   The Court  disagrees.  The gravamen of Tandon  is that a regulation is not neutral and generally applicable if it is more  favorable to a “comparable secular activity[.]”   (Tandon, supra, 593 U.S. at 62.)   But Defendants argue something different.  Instead of claiming privilege A treats  secular activities better than religious activities, they claim privilege B is  unfair because privilege A is broader than privilege B.  The problem, though, is that privilege A and  privilege B have different elements and apply in different contexts.  Defendants have the same opportunities as  secular entities to benefit – to the same extent – from secular privileges like  the attorney-client privilege as long as  they satisfy the requirements.  By  contrast, the clergy-penitent privilege is only available to religious  entities.  Defendants’ argument compares  apples and oranges.    Nevertheless, it is a factual question  whether Defendants waived the clergy-penitent privilege.  The key issue is whether Defendants kept the  laicization communications confidential.   Were they shared with third parties?   The answer appears to be yes.   Plaintiff and Defendants submitted competing fact declarations on this  point, and both tend to show that the communications were shared with several  people during the investigation and laicization process.  (See Reck Decl., Ex. 1, ¶¶ 12-27 [attaching Zilliox declaration]; see also,  e.g., Msgr. Cook Decl., ¶¶ 15-19.). Archbishop supports a waiver finding  under these facts.    Church-Autonomy  Doctrine   The  church-autonomy doctrine affords churches “independence  in matters of faith and doctrine and in closely linked matters of internal  government.”  (Our Lady of Guadalupe  School v. Morrissey-Berru (2020) 591 U.S. 732, 747.)  It “protects the right of religious  institutions ‘to decide for themselves, free from state interference, matters  of church government as well as those of faith and doctrine.’”  (Id. at 737.)   According to Defendants, the doctrine  bars Plaintiff from utilizing civil discovery to probe the laicization  proceeding and Defendants’ interpretation of canon law.  (See Motion, pp. 7-11; see also Reply, pp.  5-7.)   The Court disagrees.  As the discovery referee’s decision states,   Plaintiff’s theory of liability on the negligence claim is that the  Diocese failed to protect him from Msgr. Harris’s abuse. The Diocese’s  decision-making process regarding laicization is not at issue, and the  Diocese’s conclusory argument that this Referee would pass judgment on matters  of faith and doctrine is simply unsupported by the facts or Plaintiff’s claims.  . . .   (Reck Decl.,  Ex. 3, p. 12.)  Bottom line, the  objection should be overruled because “the Court does not need to view or  interpret Defendants’ internal processes to rule on this issue.”  (Opposition, p. 8.)  “[T]his case involves no measure of the  propriety of any Defendants’ internal processes or belief systems.”  (Ibid.)   In re  Diocese of Lubbock  (Tex. 2021) 624 S.W.3d 506 (“Lubbock”) does not change the analysis.  The case involved a deacon suing the Lubbock  Diocese for defamation.  The Texas  Supreme Court found abstention appropriate because the case would have “require[d] the trial court to evaluate whether” the  church interpreted the word “minor” correctly pursuant to canon law.  (Lubbock, supra, 624 S.W.3d at  509.)  Defendants fail to show a similar,  probable intrusion in Plaintiff’s action.   It is worth  adding that this is a discovery question.   Here, the Court is only determining whether Defendants show good cause  for a protective order.  What is  admissible and what can be shown at trial is a separate issue for another day.   Establishment  Clause   Defendants  raise the Establishment Clause in their argument regarding the church-autonomy  doctrine.  (See Motion, pp. 7-8; see also  Reply, p. 6.)   The objection is  overruled.  It is unclear whether  Defendants intended this objection to be distinct from the church-autonomy  objection, but, regardless, it is effectively the same and fails for the same  reasons.   Free  Exercise   Defendants  assert that “compelled disclosure of canonical proceedings chills the Diocese’s  right to free exercise of religion” and must pass the strict-scrutiny  test.  (Motion, p. 11; see also id. at  pp. 12-15.)   The discovery  referee cited Employment Division, Department of Human Resources of Oregon  v. Smith (1990) 494 U.S. 872.  (See  Reck Decl., Ex. 3, p. 8.)  Smith  holds that the rational-basis test applies when a law is neutral and generally  applicable, even if the law incidentally burdens the plaintiff’s free  exercise.  (See Fulton v. City of  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (2021) 593 U.S. 522, 533.)[1]   Defendants  contend Smith is distinguishable because “California’s discovery rules  are not generally applicable[.]”   (Motion, p. 11.)  In support, they  repeat their argument about the  attorney-client, physician-patient, psychotherapist-patient, and  counselor-victim privileges versus the clergy-penitent privilege (see id. at p.  12), and they quote Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.020(a), claiming  “California’s discovery rules invite courts to exercise broad discretion in granting litigants  individualized exemptions from discovery obligations based on ‘the burden,  expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery.’”   (Id. at p. 13.)   The privileges  argument fails.  The Court reiterates  that Defendants’ argument compares apples and oranges.   For the  discretion argument, Defendants mainly cite two cases.  The first is Fulton.  (See id. at pp. 11-13.)  There, Philadelphia “stopped referring  children” to a Catholic foster-care agency because “the agency would not  certify same-sex couples to be foster parents due to its religious beliefs  about marriage.”  (Fulton, supra,  593 U.S. at 526-527.)  Philadelphia’s  policy stated: “Rejection of Referral. Provider shall not reject a child or  family including, but not limited to, . . . prospective foster or adoptive  parents, for Services based upon . . . their . . . sexual orientation . . . unless  an exception is granted by the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designee, in his/her  sole discretion.”  (Id. at 535, emphasis  in original.)  The Supreme Court held that the policy “d[id]  not meet the requirement of being neutral and generally applicable” since it  gave the commissioner or the commissioner’s designee “sole discretion” to grant  exceptions.  (See id. at 534-537.)    Defendants’  second case is Fellowship of Christian Athletes v. San Jose Unified School  District (9th Cir. 2023) 82 F.4th 664 (“FCA”).  “[A] ministry group formed for student athletes to engage in  various activities through their shared Christian faith” “require[d] students  serving in a leadership capacity to affirm a Statement of Faith and to abide by  a sexual purity policy.”  (FCA,  supra, 82 F.4th at 671.)  The  San Jose Unified School District determined that the requirement violated “the  District’s non-discrimination policies.”   (Ibid.)  As punishment, the  District revoked the group’s “status as an official student club on multiple  campuses[.]”  (Ibid.)  On appeal, the Ninth Circuit found that “the  District’s policies [were] not generally applicable because the District  retain[ed] discretion to grant individualized exemptions for its own programs  and student programs alike.”  (Id. at  687.)  For example, while the policies  prohibited “discrimination on the basis of race, sex, sexual orientation,  religion, and other criteria[,]” the District admitted that it sometimes  exercised discretion to allow exceptions to advance equity.  (Ibid.)   The Ninth Circuit concluded that the “authority ‘to decide which reasons  for not complying with the policy [were] worthy of solicitude’ on an ad hoc  basis render[ed] the policy not ‘generally applicable’ and require[d] the  application of strict scrutiny.”  (Ibid.)   Defendants’ objection  is overruled.  These decisions concern  anti-discrimination policies that provided government bureaucrats with vast  discretion to award exemptions that they then refused to award to religious  groups.  The decisions do not address  California’s discovery rules; and section 2017.020(a), which, importantly,  gives discretion to judges as opposed to bureaucrats, does not furnish the  degree of unfettered discretion that the Philadelphia and San Jose policies  did.  (See, e.g., Opposition, pp. 11-12  [pointing out that section 2017.020(a) sets “definite standards” for courts to  follow and limits their discretion].)  The  Court believes it would be a mistake to stretch Fulton’s and FAC’s  reach as far as Defendants want.  Given  that limited judicial discretion is always available under section 2017.020(a),  the practical effect of Defendants’ argument is that strict scrutiny would  apply in the large majority of instances where a religious entity receives a  discovery request, no matter the type of case, and no matter whether the  request actually challenges a religious activity.  All the entity would need to do to invoke  strict scrutiny is argue a tangential/incidental burden, making it almost  impossible for the judge to order the entity to produce otherwise relevant and  discoverable information.  The Court doubts  that the Supreme Court and the Ninth Circuit intended Fulton and FAC  to have this kind of effect on the discovery process.[2] [3]   Conclusion   The Court finds that  Defendants’ objections should be overruled and that Defendants’ motion should  be denied.[4]       