  This is a PAGA action.  Defendants Wax Paper, LLC, Wax Paper Frogtown, LLC, and Wax Paper Chinatown, LLC seek a protective order because they contend that Plaintiff has propounded excessive, unnecessary, and objectionable discovery meant to harass and overwhelm Defendants, who are “struggling to keep the doors of these small restaurants open in Los Angeles.”  Defendants argue that the discovery is particularly excessive in light of discovery propounded in another lawsuit (Jennifer Batter v. Lingua Franca, LLC, et al.,. LASC No. 23STCV21501) by Plaintiff's counsel: “Plaintiff’s counsel propounded 25 sets of discovery, consisting of 15 sets in the instant action and 10 sets in the Batter action. Specifically, the discovery includes 255 Requests for Documents (153 requests in Christensen; 102 in Batter) 445 Special Interrogatories (267 in Christensen; 178 in Batter) 40 Requests for Admissions (24 in Christensen; 16 in Batter), 5 sets of Form Interrogatories, General (3 in Christensen; 2 in Batter), and 5 sets of Form Interrogatories, Employment (3 in Christensen; 2 in Batter.)”Good cause must be shown for the protective order, and the issuance and formulation of the protective order are within the Court’s discretion.  (See, e.g., Mercury Interactive Corp. v. Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 106-7; Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.) The reference to the Batter suit is mostly irrelevant because that action involves a different plaintiff against different defendants.  That these defendants are all owned by the same family is not particularly persuasive.   Defendants also seem to argue that Plaintiff should not be propounding discovery on all three Defendants when Plaintiff only worked for one Defendant.  This has not been properly explained or supported; certainly, there was no evidence provided on this point in the moving papers.  Plaintiff alleges she worked for all three Defendants and that they are joint employers. Further, the Court does not find the discovery to be harassing or inappropriate in volume.  It’s true that some of the requests are objectionable, but the Court will not hold a prophylactic hearing on a motion to compel by deciding which requests should be answered at this juncture.  Defendants can assert objections where appropriate and then the parties can meet and confer in good faith prior to resorting to further motion practice.  The Motion for Protective Order is denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.