 Case Number:  23SMCV06002    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Adelstein v. An Apple a Day,
LLC, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV06002 


Complaint Filed:


12-26-23         




Hearing Date:


11-5-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


13


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff Adrienne Edelstein
RESP.
PARTY:         Defendant Xirou Zhang
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff
Adrienne Edelstein’s Motion for Trial Preference is DENIED, without prejudice. Plaintiff
Adrienne Edelstein’s counsel does not provide a declaration satisfying the
statutory requirement of CCP § 35(a) to show the health of the party is such
that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in
the litigation.
 
REASONING
            
According to CCP §36(a), “[a] party
to a civil action who is over the age of 70 years may petition the court for a
preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes all of the following
findings:  (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole.  (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary
to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)
  
An attorney declaration for trial
preference under CCP §36(a) is sufficient and may be made on information and
belief.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)  If a motion for trial preference
is granted, the court shall set the trial date not more than 120 days from
granting of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).) 
 
            As
the Court in Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529 explained,
subsections (a) and (d) are entirely distinct in their requirements for trial
preference: “The standard under subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision
(d), which is more specific and more rigorous, includes no requirement of a
doctor's declaration. To the contrary, a motion under subdivision (a) may be
supported by nothing more than an attorney's declaration based upon information
and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.”  (Fox,
supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 534.)  Section 36(a) also does not require
imminent death or incapacity for trial preference: “Section 36,
subdivision (a), says nothing about death or incapacity.  Whether there is
‘substantial medical doubt of survival ... beyond six months’ is, to be sure, a
matter of specific concern under subdivision (d), but the relevant standard
under subdivision (a) is more open-ended. The issue under subdivision (a) is
not whether an elderly litigant might die before trial or become so disabled
that she might as well be absent when trial is called. Provided there is
evidence that the party involved is over 70, all subdivision (a) requires is a
showing that that party's ‘health ... is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing [her] interest in the litigation.’”  (Id.) 
 
            Plaintiff
Adrienne Edelstein (“Edelstein”) counsel, Greyson Goody (“Goody”), submits a
declaration with the motion for trial preference providing a copy of
Edelstein’s driver’s license, showing that that Edelstein is 90 years old, thus
over the age of 70. (See Goody Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 2.)  Edelstein is the sole Plaintiff in the matter
thus she has a substantial interest in the action. 
 
Goody attaches a copy of a clinical
records research study purportedly to show that Goody’s health “is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the
litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) Goody does not declare that
Edelstein’s health is in any specific state to warrant the trial preference,
thus Goody does not meet the statutory requirements under CCP § 36(a). Goody
must support his argument that Edelstein’s health is an issue with “an
attorney's declaration based upon information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (Fox, supra, 21
Cal.App.5th at 534.) Simply attaching a research study, with nothing more,
for what the Court can only guess is to show that the age of Edelstein will be
impacted by the alleged trauma at issue will not suffice. Goody must provide a
declaration directly stating as such. Finally, none of facts argued in the
Reply are supported by any declaration. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Trial Preference is DENIED.  