  Case Number:  20SMCP00238    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  WVM Holdings , LLC v. Noval, et
al. 



Case No.:


20SMCP00238


Complaint Filed:


7-20-20           




Hearing Date:


9-26-24 


Discovery C/O:


9-2-24




Calendar No.:


6


Discovery Motion C/O:


9-16-24




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


12-9-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants Victor Franco
Noval individually and as trustee of the Shernbourne Trust and Rexford Trust;
Victorino Noval individually and as trustee the Advisors Trust; Secured Capital
Partners, LLC; Beverly Hills Real Estate Holdings, LLC; 8484 Wilshire Blvd,
LLC; and 1141 Summit Drive, LLC
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff WVM Holdings,
LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED. Defendants do not meet their initial burden to
show that Plaintiff cannot prevail on an alter ego liability cause of action,
and a fraudulent transfer cause of action. Even if Defendants were to meet
their initial burden Platiniff’s provide triable issues material fact to the
challenged elements of both causes of action. 
 
            Defendants
RJN and Supplemental RJN are GRANTED as to the existence of articles, court
documents, and the administrative ruling documents, but not to the “truth of
the hearsay statements in the documents.” (In re Vicks (2013) 56 Cal.4th
274, 314.). 
 
            Defendants
Objections are OVERRULED as to Nos 1–9, 11–19, 21–68, and SUSTAINED as to Nos.
10 (lacks authentication and foundation), and 20 (hearsay).
 
  
REASONING
            “A party is
entitled to summary judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing
there are no triable issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law. This is true even if the opposing party fails to
file any opposition. The court's assessment of whether the moving party has
carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's
evaluation of the opposing party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion
does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the
opposing papers.” (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty Insurance Company (2020)
49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 [landlord’s failure to address issue of whether
they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing operation was not grounds
to grant summary judgment where moving party failed to satisfy its initial
burden as to the issue]; Thatcher v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79
Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 [court cannot grant summary judgment based merely
on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the moving party has
satisfied its burden].) 
 
            In
addition, the evidence and affidavits of the moving party are construed
strictly, while those of the opponent are liberally read. (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts
as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue of
material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of
the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
 
 
I.               
Defendants Do Not Meet Their Burden to Show that
Plaintiff cannot establish elements of their Alter Ego and Fraudulent transfer
claims
 
            
            Where a
defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one
or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(o)(2).) A defendant may satisfy this burden by showing
that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence on some
essential element of the claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.) Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts
to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to that cause of action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary
adjudication in favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)
 
“[P]ointing out the absence of
evidence to support a plaintiff's claim is insufficient to meet the moving
defendant's initial burden of production. The defendant must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891; see Zoran
Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 808 [“It was not enough simply to
assert that [Plaintiff] had no evidence supporting an element of each cause of
action; a moving defendant “must indeed present ‘evidence,’ ” such as “
‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken”].)
 
A.   
First cause of Action for Alter Ego Liability
 
Defendants Victor Franco Noval
(“Franco Noval”, “Franco” or “Noval Jr.”) individually and as trustee of the
Shernbourne Trust and Rexford Trust; Victorino Noval (“Victor Noval,” or “Noval
Sr.”) individually and as trustee the Advisors Trust; Secured Capital Partners,
LLC (“SCP”); Beverly Hills Real Estate Holdings, LLC (“BHRE”); 8484 Wilshire
Blvd, LLC (“8484”); and 1141 Summit Drive, LLC (“1141,” collectively
“Defendants”) move for summary judgment of Plaintiff WVM Holdings, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) first cause of action for Addition of Judgment Debtors pursuant
to CCP § 187. Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot prove there was unity
of ownership and interest between Tower Park Properties, LLC (“TPP”) and
Charles Dickens (“Dickens”, collectively the “Original Judgment Debtors,”), nor
that Defendants had control of the underlying litigation. 
 
            CCP “[s]ection
187 authorizes a trial court to amend a judgment to add a judgment debtor who
is found to be an alter ego of a corporate defendant.” Blizzard Energy, Inc.
v. Schaefers (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 832, 846.)
 
To prevail on the alter ego claim
under CCP § 187 Plaintiff “must show that (1) the parties to be added as
judgment debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually
represented in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and
ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no
longer exist; and (3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts are treated
as those of the entity alone.” (Relentless Air Racing, LLC v. Airborne
Turbine Ltd. Partnership (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 811, 815–816; see also Zoran
Corp. v. Chen (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 799, 811 [“[I]t is generally
stated that in order to prevail on an alter-ego theory, the plaintiff must show
that “(1) there is such a unity of interest that the separate personalities of
the corporations no longer exist; and (2) inequitable results will
follow if the corporate separateness is respected.”].)
 
            “[T]he
determination of whether a corporation is an alter ego of an individual is
ordinarily a question of fact.” (Misik v. D'Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th
1065, 1072, as modified (Aug. 9, 2011). “There are two requirements for
disregarding the corporate entity: first, that there is a sufficient unity of
interest and ownership between the corporation and the individual or
organization controlling it that the separate personalities of the individual
and the corporation no longer exist and, second, that treating the acts as
those of the corporation alone will sanction a fraud, promote injustice, or
cause an inequitable result.” (Ibid.) “Both of these requirements must
be found to exist before the corporate existence will be disregarded, and since
this determination is primarily one for the trial court and is not a question
of law, the conclusion of the trier of fact will not be disturbed if it is
supported by substantial evidence.” (Ibid.)
 
            “The first requirement for
disregarding the corporate entity under the alter ego doctrine—whether there is
sufficient unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of
the individual and the corporation no longer exist—encompasses a series of
factors. Among the many factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are
one individual's ownership of all stock in a corporation; use of the same
office or business location; commingling of funds and other assets of the
individual and the corporation; an individual holding out that he is personally
liable for debts of the corporation; identical directors and officers; failure
to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records; disregard of corporate
formalities; absence of corporate assets and inadequate capitalization; and the
use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for the
business of an individual. (Id., at p. 1073.) “This list of factors is not
exhaustive, and  . . . [n]o single factor
is determinative, and instead a court must examine all the circumstances to
determine whether to apply the doctrine.” (Ibid.)
 
            “The second
requirement for application of the alter ego doctrine is a finding that the
facts are such that adherence to the fiction of the separate existence of the
corporation would sanction a fraud or promote injustice.” (Ibid.) “The
test for this requirement is that if the acts are treated as those of the
corporation alone, it will produce an unjust or inequitable result.” (Ibid.)

 
            “The
essence of the alter ego doctrine is that justice be done. ‘What the formula
comes down to ... is that liability is imposed to reach an equitable result.’
[Citation.] Thus the corporate form will be disregarded ... only when the ends
of justice so require.” (Blizzard Energy, Inc. v. Schaefers (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 832, 854.)


Under the successor theory of alter
ego liability, “California decisions holding that a corporation acquiring the
assets of another corporation is the latter's mere continuation and therefore
liable for its debts have imposed such liability only upon a showing of one or
both of the following factual elements: (1) no adequate consideration was given
for the predecessor corporation's assets and made available for meeting the
claims of its unsecured creditors; (2) one or more persons were officers,
directors, or stockholders of both corporations.” (Wolf Metals Inc. v. Rand
Pacific Sales, Inc. (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 698, 705.)
 
“Alter ego liability “is not
limited to the parent-subsidiary corporate relationship; rather, ‘under the single-enterprise
rule, liability can [also] be found between sister [or affiliated]
companies.” (Cam-Carson, LLC v. Carson Reclamation Authority (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 535, 550, review denied (Nov. 16, 2022).) ““Factors for the
trial court to consider include the commingling of funds and assets of the two
entities, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same
offices and employees, disregard of corporate formalities, identical directors
and officers, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the
other. [Citation.] ‘No one characteristic governs, but the courts must look at
all the circumstances to determine whether the doctrine should be applied.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs plead multiple alter ego
theories in the TAC, including single enterprise rule, and successor theory, in
addition to shareholder liability. Defendants provide declaration evidence to
some, but not all, of these theories. Defendants argue their declaration
evidence show there is no unity of ownership and interest between the Original
Judgment debtors and any of the Defendants (See SSUF, ¶¶ 38–41, 42, 63–91,
93–110, 114.)  However, alter ego
liability is generally a question of fact. Certainly, at trial, the Court is
free to weigh the evidence presented and ultimately decide whether this
evidence is sufficient to find the adherence to the fiction of the separate
existence of the TPP  “would sanction a
fraud or promote injustice” or, more particularly will produce an “unjust” or “inequitable
result.” At this stage, however, defendant’s conclusionary declarations do not
show that all of the possible alter ego factors cannot be met to a such a
degree that the Court can decide now, as a matter of law, that it would be
unequitable or unjust to find the Defendants are the alter egos of TPP.
 
Defendants argue in the reply that Plaintiff
cannot and has not provided any evidence that the Defendants controlled the
underlying litigation. (See Reply., p. 5; SSUF, ¶¶ 20–21; Dickens Decl. at ¶
67; Franco Decl. ¶ 76.) However, at minimum, Plaintiff shows there is an issue
of material fact as to whether Defendants, specifically Noval Sr., owned a 10%
interest in TPP at the time of the underlying litigation. (See SSUF, ¶¶ 21–22;
PAOE, Ex. 6 Dickens Depo at pp. 27–41, 59) At page 30 of the Dickins Deposition,
Dickens stated it was his belief that Noval Sr.  “was Advisors” Trust, which was another
signatory on the 2007 agreement, and thus Noval Sr. owned 10% interest in TPP
upon the agreement execution. (PAOE, Ex. 6 Dickens Depo at p. 30:2–9.) This
10% interest in TPP may provide enough foundation to show how the Novels
directly or indirectly had sufficient control over TPP in the underlying
litigation.  Plaintiff therefore shows
there is a disputed material fact regarding Defendants control over TPP.
Additionally, Defendants argue that
the original judgment and judgment lien were discharged by Tower Park
Properties, LLC’s (“TPP”) bankruptcy, and thus a bar to this action. (SSUF, ¶¶
23, 27, 30–31.) It is undisputed that TPP filed for bankruptcy on 7-11-08.
(SSUF, ¶ 22; Dickens Decl., ¶ 69, Ex. D.) It is undisputed that Plaintiff’s
assignor KGMAC, LLC was a claimant in the bankruptcy and accepted the Fifth
Amended Plan. (SSUF, ¶¶ 23, 27; Dickens Decl., ¶ 69, 72; Ex. E, H.) Defendants
argues that TPP’s Fifth Amended Plan provided for the “treatment and full
satisfaction of the Original Judgment and the claim made by KGMAC, LLC in the
TPP Bankruptcy,” and thus Plaintiff’s assignor and Plaintiff themselves were
enjoined from prosecuting the Original Debt and the debt thereunder (SSUF, ¶¶
28–31; Dickens Decl., ¶ 65; Ex. F at pp. 24:2–11; Ex. G at ¶¶ 6.a–b, 7.)
 
Disregarding whether the TPP Bankruptcy
actually discharged the Original Judgement and Judgment Lien, the Plaintiff can
still file claims against an alleged alter egos for the judgement amount because
the creditor's alter ego allegations do not automatically become the property
of the bankruptcy estate once the corporate debtor files for bankruptcy. (See Shaoxing
County Huayue Import & Export v. Bhaumik (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1189,
1197 [finding that Plaintiff’s alter ego claims were not stayed by Defendant’s
bankruptcy filing].) Additionally, 11 U.S.C.A. § 524(e), part of the federal
bankruptcy statutes, “confines the debt that may be discharged to the “debt of
the debtor”—and not the obligations of third parties for that debt—conforms to
the basic fact that “a discharge in bankruptcy does not extinguish the debt
itself but merely releases the debtor from personal liability.... The debt
still exists, however, and can be collected from any other entity that may be
liable.” (Blixseth v. Credit Suisse (9th Cir. 2020) 961 F.3d 1074, 1082;
see also In re RS Air, LLC (B.A.P. 9th Cir. 2023) 651 B.R. 538, 544 [“Following
the plain language of the statute [§ 524(e)], we have repeatedly emphasized
that the discharge only affects the debtor's “personal liability.”].)


Thus, if the alter ego claims are
viable, the Plaintiff can collect the judgment amount from the alleged alter
ego Defendants regardless of whether TPP’s debt was discharged in bankruptcy. 
 
            Additionally,
it is disputed whether the bankruptcy fully discharged the Original Judgment as
to the Plaintiff. Defendants leave out the first part of the sentence, “Subject
to the Provision below,” within the Confirmation Order ¶ 6.a in the
Separate Statement and Motion. The paragraph states in its entirety:
 
Subject to the provision below,
confirmation shall bind the Debtor, its estate, the Reorganized Debtor, all
creditors, any person acquiring or receiving property under the Plan, any party
to a contract with the Debtor, any other parties in interest to the provisions
of the Plan whether or not the claim of such creditor is impaired under the
Plan and whether or not such creditor has accepted the Plan, and the respective
heirs, executors, administrators, successors or assigns, if any, of any of the
foregoing.
 
(Def. Appx. Exh. “G” at ¶ 6.a.)
 
The full Paragraph 6(b) of the
Confirmation Order states: 
 
Except as otherwise provided in
the Plan or in this Confirmation Order, on the Effective Date, to the
extent applicable, the Debtor will be discharged from any debt that arose
before confirmation of the Plan, and any debt of a kind specified in Section
502(g), 502(h) or 502(i) of the Bankruptcy Code whether or not a proof of claim
based on such debt was filed or deemed filed under Section 501 of the
Bankruptcy Code, such claim was allowed under Section 502 of the Bankruptcy
Code or the holder of such claim accepted the Plan.
 
(Def. Appx. Exh. “G” at ¶ 6.b.)
 
The Confirmation
Order paragraph 20 states in relevant part: 
 
Other than (a) the property tax liens
of Los Angeles County, (b) the Existing Liens of the Hughes Entities whose
treatment shall be consistent with the terms of the Exit Financing Facility and
the Hughes Trust Settlement, and (c) LJCI’s lien, whose treatment shall be
consistent with the terms described in the Plan, all other liens on the
Property (the “Junior Liens”) shall be treated as follows: (1) the Junior Liens
shall remain on the Property in their allowed amount, priority and validity,
which amount, priority and validity are not determined except as set forth in
the Plan; . . . 
 
(4) Junior Liens released hereunder
shall automatically and immediately attach to the proceeds of the Property Sale
or any other transaction unless otherwise provided in the Plan
 
(Def. Appx. Exh. “G” at ¶ 20.)
 
Exhibit A from the Confirmation
Order shows KGMAC, LLC as a Junior Lien Holder. (See Def. Appx. Exh. “G”, at p.
15 ¶ 1.)
 
The Fifth Amended
Plan specifically states in relevant part: 
 
(I) the Junior Liens shall remain on
the Property in their allowed amount, priority and validity; (2) the Junior
Liens, to the extent that they secure allowed secured claims of this bankruptcy
estate, shall be paid from the cash or other proceeds of a sale or other
disposition of a Property Interest (a "Property Sale") in their order
of priority under applicable nonbankruptcy law, except as otherwise provided
herein; . . .
 
(Def. Appx. Exh. “F”, at pp. 6:19–724.)
 
The Court cannot find any evidence of
payment from any property sales on the junior loans within the separate
statement. Thus, Defendants do not meet their initial burden to show that the
junior loans have in fact been discharged. Additionally, there is a disputed
fact as to whether the junior loans, including the Plaintiff’s junior loan, has
in fact been discharged by a property sale. 
 
Defendants argue that due to the
Plaintiff being enjoined from prosecuting the original judgment, Plaintiffs
violated the Confirmation Order by renewing the judgment on 3-22-17. (SSUF, ¶
2.) Defendants argue that due to Plaintiff’s violation of the confirmation
order, the 2017 Renewal effectively does not exist, meaning the Original
Judgment expired on 1-30-18, and thus Plaintiff’s Alter Ego cause of action
fails as a matter of law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 683.020 [In California, a
money judgment is enforceable for 10 years and then expires and may not be
enforced].) However, as analyzed above, Plaintiff’s Junior Lien was not
discharged by the Fifth Amended Plan, but instead became attached to the Property
under the plan. Thus, this argument is not persuasive, as there is no evidence
provided that Plaintiff’s Junior Lien was satisfied as per the Fifth Amended
Plan, which would allow Plaintiff to renew the original judgement prior to the 10-year
expiration date on 3-22-27.
 
Thus, Defendants argument fails regarding
TPP’s bankruptcy proceedings barring Plaintiff’s action as a matter of law.
 
 
B.   
Second Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Transfer
 
"A fraudulent conveyance is “a
transfer by the debtor of property to a third person undertaken with the intent
to prevent a creditor from reaching that interest to satisfy its claim.” (Nautilus,
Inc. v. Yang (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 33, 39.)    

 
            The Uniform
Fraudulent Transfer Act (“UFTA”) codified in Civil Code 3239.01(a) provides  “(a) A transfer made or obligation incurred by
a debtor is voidable as to a creditor, whether the creditor's claim arose
before or after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred, if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation as follows: [¶] (1) With
actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor. [¶] (2)
Without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation, and the debtor either: [¶] (A) Was engaged or was about to engage
in a business or a transaction for which the remaining assets of the debtor
were unreasonably small in relation to the business or transaction. [¶] (B)
Intended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the
debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor's ability to pay as they became
due.” (Cal. Civ. Code § 3439.04, subd. (a).)
 
            “Whether a
transfer is made with fraudulent intent, [is a] question[] of fact.” (Nautilus,
Inc, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 40; see also Aghaian v.
Minassian (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 447, 456 [“Whether a debtor had the actual
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud a creditor is a question of fact.”].) 
 
            Among other
so-called “badges of fraud” indicating such intent, the fact finder may
consider whether: (1) the debtor made the transfer to an “insider”; (2) the
debtor retained possession or control of the property after the transfer; (3)
the debtor had been sued before making the transfer; (4) the debtor removed or
concealed assets; (5) the value of the consideration received by the debtor was
reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred; and (6) the
transfer occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt was
incurred. (§ 3439.04, subd. (b).) None of these factors is determinative, and
no minimum or maximum number of factors is required.” (Aghaian, supra,
59 Cal.App.5th at p. 456.)
 
            California
imposes liability “on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional
tort if the person (a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty
and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b)
gives substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result
and the person's own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of
duty to the third person.” (Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144;; accord American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta
Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1477, 171 [individual may be
liable for aiding and abetting an intentional tort where he or she “makes ‘ “a
conscious decision to participate in tortious activity for the purpose of
assisting another in performing a wrongful act” ’ ”].) “Because transferring
funds in order to evade creditors constitutes an intentional tort, it logically
follows that California common law should recognize liability for aiding and
abetting a fraudulent transfer.” (Berger v. Varum (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th
1013, 1025.)
 
            Defendants
point to their arguments under the Alter Ego cause of action to argue there is
no creditor-debtor relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant as required by
Civ Code § 3439.01. (Motion, p. 17:6–10.) However, as analyzed above, Defendant
has not met their initial burden to show there are no triable issues of fact as
to the Alter Ego cause of action. Defendants do not show, nor provide evidence,
that Plaintiffs cannot show an alter ego exists creating a debtor credit
relationship. Thus, this argument is not persuasive. 
 
            Defendants
argue and point to declarations showing there was no intent of the Defendants
to hinder, delay or defraud the Original Judgment Debtors’ creditors. (SSUF, ¶
230; Defendants Appendix of Evidence (“DAOE”), Dickens Decl. ¶ 81; Franco Noval
Jr. (“Franco”) Decl. ¶ 93.) Defendants argue they never aided and abetted
Original Judgment Debtors to hinder, delay or defraud Original Judgment
Debtors’ creditors. (SSUF, ¶ 232; Dickens Decl. at ¶ 82; Franco Decl. at ¶ 94.)
Defendants argue Dickens never asked, agreed or conspired with any of the
Defendants to hinder, delay or defraud his or TPP’s creditors. (SSUF, ¶¶ 227,
228, 229, 231; Dickens Decl. at ¶¶ 79–82; Franco Decl. at ¶¶ 91–94; Exh. “Q” at
pp. 146:15–147:5, 147:15–23, & 149:3–8.)
 
            Again, Defendants
conclusory declarations, without providing additional substantial evidence to
refute the fraudulent transfer elements, are not  sufficient to meet the Defendants burden on
summary judgment. (See Annod Corp. v. Hamilton & Samuels (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 1286, 1293 [“the moving partners were required to present evidence
that would require the trial court not to find fraudulent intent more
likely than not.”] 
 
Even if the Court finds that
Defendants have met their initial burden through these conclusory declarations
and the Dickens Deposition, Plaintiff have in turn raised triable issues of
fact as to the existence of intent and aiding and abetting elements. Plaintiff argues
and provides evidence showing that both Noval Sr. and Noval Jr. were/are
managing members of Secured Capital Partners, LLC (“SCP”) (SSUF, ¶ 32, 92, 106–112,
227–229; Franco Decl., ¶¶ 4–5, Ex. L; Plaintiffs Appendix of Exhibits
(“PAOE”) Ex. 13 at p. 11 [Barino Note showing Victorino Noval (“Noval Sr.”) as
the SCP Managing Member.].) Plaintiff provides arguments and evidence to show the
possible existence of the “badges of fraud” including but not limited to
insider transfers, timing of the transfers between SCP and other Defendant
entities, along with the pre-existing restitution amount owed by Noval Sr. (See
SSUF, ¶ 92 [Plaintiff’s theory and provided circumstantial evidence of the
fraudulent transfer] Plaintiff provides evidence that SCP paid for Defendant
Dickens’ expenses at Noval Sr. request. (Ibid; DAOE, Franco Decl., ¶ 96;
PAOE Ex. 5, Noval Jr. Depo at pp. 20-23, 66, 196, 269-271, 279, 321, 328-330; Dominguez
Decl. Exh. A and B [SCP also paid millions to Dickens, including paying for his
rent at 717 N. Rexford Drive ($14,000 per month].)
 
Plaintiff’s provided evidence
creates triable issues of fact as the intent and aiding and abetting elements
due to the timing of multiple transfers between the Defendants and SCP, and
other possible badges of fraud listed above. Intent is generally a matter of
fact for the jury to decide, the Court cannot state as a matter of law there
was no intent, or aiding and abetting in fraudulent transfers. 