 Case Number:  24SMCV04818    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  O   Case Name: 
Armeni, et al. v. SN Servicing Corporation



Case No.:                    24SMCV04818 


Complaint Filed:                   10-3-24




Hearing Date:            11-5-24 


Discovery C/O:                     None




Calendar No.:            11


Discover Motion C/O:          None




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION 
MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiffs Attilo Armeni and
Laurel Armeni
RESP.
PARTY:         Specially Appearing Defendant
SN Servicing Corporation
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiffs
Attilo Armeni and Laurel Armenis’ Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs meets the requirements of CCP §
526. 
 
The Court orders Specially
Appearing Defendant SN Servicing Corporation enjoined from conducting the
Trustee’s Sale on the subject property at 3116 N. Summit Pointe Dr. Topanga
Canyon, CA 90290. 
 
            The
Court orders an undertaking of $1,847.93 per month during the course of
litigation to paid by Plaintiffs Attilo Armeni and Laurel Armeni pursuant to
CCP § 529(a)
 
REASONING
 
            Plaintiff
must establish the likelihood that (1) the likelihood of prevailing on these
causes of action; (2) the existence of irreparable harm/inadequacy of legal
remedies, i.e. a real threat of immediate and irreparable injury due to the
inadequacy of legal remedies; and (3) circumstances indicating that the
hardships Plaintiffs will sustain if the injunction does not issue outweigh the
harm Defendants would suffer if the injunction does issue.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 526, subd. (a).)  
 
            “A
preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor. No preliminary injunction shall be granted without notice to the
opposing party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).)
 
            “In deciding whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, a court must weigh two interrelated factors: (1) the likelihood
that the moving party will ultimately prevail on the merits, and (2) the
relative interim harm to the parties from issuance or non-issuance of the
injunction.  (Butt v. State of
California (1992) 4 Cal. 4th 668, 677–678); see also Alliant Ins.
Services, Inc. v. Gaddy (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 1292, 1299.)  “The trial court’s determination must be
guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater
the plaintiff's showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support
an injunction.”  (Butt, supra,
4 Cal. 4th at p. 678.)
 
            The general objective in
issuing a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo.  (See Continental Baking Co. v. Katz
(1968) 68 Cal.2d 512, 528.)  In addition,
it is rarely appropriate to grant a preliminary injunction that not only does
not preserve the status quo but also grants the ultimate relief sought in the
action, before trial.  (See Paramount
Pictures Corp. v. Davis (1965) 228 Cal.App.2d 827.)  A preliminary injunction must not issue
unless the plaintiff can demonstrate reasonable probability that he will
prevail on the merits, regardless of the balancing of the hardships or the
irreparable nature of the harm.  (See
San Francisco Newspaper Printing Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 170
Cal.App.3d 438, 442.)
 
I.               
Plaintiffs
demonstrate irreparable harm 
 
Plaintiffs Attilo Armeni and Laurel
Armeni (“Plaintiffs”) argue they will be irreparably harmed because without a
Preliminary Injunction in place Plaintiffs will lose their home and over
$1,195,000.00 in equity due to Specially Appearing Defendant SN Servicing
Corporation’s (“Defendant”) trustee sale. (Armeni Decl., ¶¶ 18, 31.) 
 
Defendant’s do not dispute this fact
within their opposition, and thus the Court finds that Plaintiffs have
demonstrated irreparable harm. However, Plaintiffs must show a probability of
prevailing on their claims in order for the injunction to be granted. (See Jessen
v. Keystone Savings & Loan Assn. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 454, 459 [“In a
practical sense it is appropriate to deny an injunction where there is no
showing of reasonable probability of success, even though the foreclosure will
create irreparable harm, because there is no justification in delaying that
harm where, although irreparable, it is also inevitable”].)


II.            
Plaintiff’s probability of prevailing
 
            As moving party,
Plaintiff bears the burden of establishing all necessary elements to justify
issuance of the injunction.  (See
O'Connell v. Sup.Ct. (Valenzuela) (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)  This requires Plaintiff to provide the Court
with admissible evidence establishing irreparable harm and the likelihood that
Plaintiff will prevail on the merits in this action.  (See Code Civ. Proc.
§ 527, subd. (a).)  A preliminary
injunction must not issue unless the Plaintiff can demonstrate reasonable
probability that he will prevail on the merits, regardless of the balancing of
the hardships or the irreparable nature of the harm.  (See San Francisco Newspaper Printing Co.
v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442.)
 
            In order
for Plaintiff to prevail at trial they must establish his claims by a
preponderance of the evidence.  In civil
cases, the requisite degree of proof is generally a “preponderance” of the
evidence: “Except as otherwise provided by law, the burden of proof requires
proof by a preponderance of the evidence.” 
(Evid. Code  § 115.)  “Preponderance of the evidence” means
evidence that has more convincing force than that opposed to it. “If the
evidence is so evenly balanced that [the jury is] unable to say the evidence on
either side of an issue preponderates, [the jury's finding] on that issue [must
be] against the party who had the burden of proving it.”  (See BAJI 2.60 (emphasis and brackets added);
compare CACI 200—“more likely to be true than not true.”)  “The trial court is the judge of the
credibility of the affidavits filed in support of the application for
preliminary injunction and it is that court's province to resolve
conflicts.”  (Yu v. University of La
Verne (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 779, 787 [substantial evidence supported trial
court’s factual determination that university’s disciplinary action against
student was not based on student’s exercise of speech rights].)  
 
            Plaintiffs
argue they are likely to succeed on their claim for Violations of Cal. Civ.
Code § 2923.6. The operative subdivisions of Cal. Civ Code § 2923.6(c) and (d) state
the following:
 
(c) If a borrower submits a complete
application for a first lien loan modification offered by, or through, the
borrower's mortgage servicer at least five business days before a scheduled
foreclosure sale, a mortgage servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary, or
authorized agent shall not record a notice of default or notice of sale, or
conduct a trustee's sale, while the complete first lien loan modification
application is pending. A mortgage servicer, mortgagee, trustee, beneficiary,
or authorized agent shall not record a notice of default or notice of sale or
conduct a trustee's sale until any of the following occurs:
(1) The mortgage servicer makes a
written determination that the borrower is not eligible for a first lien loan
modification, and any appeal period pursuant to subdivision (d) has expired.
(2) The borrower does not accept an
offered first lien loan modification within 14 days of the offer.
(3) The borrower accepts a written
first lien loan modification, but defaults on, or otherwise breaches the
borrower's obligations under, the first lien loan modification.
 
(Civ. Code, § 2923.6, subd. (c).)
 
(d) If the borrower's application for a
first lien loan modification is denied, the borrower shall have at least 30
days from the date of the written denial to appeal the denial and to provide
evidence that the mortgage servicer's determination was in error.


(Civ. Code, § 2923.6, subd. (d.)
 
            Plaintiffs
declare that they have owned the subject property at 3116 N. Summit Pointe Dr.
Topanga Canyon, CA 90290 (the “Property”) since 1999, and in 2006 Plaintiffs
took out a first position loan with Countrywide Bank for $1,100,00.00.  (Armeni Decl., ¶¶ 3–5.) Plaintiffs declare
that Defendant became the loan servicer “at some point thereafter,” and on
4-2-19 Plaintiffs filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy with the Chapter 11 Plan
confirmed on 4-6-20 and bankruptcy terminated on 11-19-20. (Id., ¶¶ 6–9.)
Plaintiffs declare that on 5-8-24 a notice of default was recorded on the property,
and on 6-15-24 Plaintiffs submitted a request for mortgage assistance to
Defendant. (Id., ¶¶ 12–14.) Plaintiffs declare that they attempted to
make multiple mortgage payments which Defendants denied, and on or about 8-2-24
a Notice of Trustee’s Sale (“NOTS”) was recorded on the Property. (Id.,
¶¶ 14–18.) Plaintiffs declare that on 8-26-24 Defendants informed Plaintiffs
that their mortgage assistance application was denied, and Plaintiffs submitted
their appeal on 9-4-24, prior to the 30-day limit, or until 9-26-24, to appeal
the denial pursuant to CCP § 2923.6(d). (Id., ¶¶ 19–21.) Plaintiffs
declare that the Plaintiffs were informed of the appeal denial on 10-12-24, but
the sale of the property went through on 10-9-24 despite a TRO being in place.
(Id., ¶¶ 23–24.) Plaintiffs declare that the sale was unwound due to the
TRO, but “two separate individuals” gained access to their property, and “proceeded
to bang aggressively on our front door, and try to enter our backyard yelling,
“This is our house now!” (Id., ¶¶ 25–26.) Plaintiffs declare that on 10-30-24
Plaintiffs submitted all the requested material for a new loss mitigation
application to Defendant. (Id., ¶¶ 27–28.)
 
            Defendant’s
argue Plaintiffs cannot prevail on their claim because Plaintiffs appeal of
their loan modification denial did not contain any evidence that Defendant’s
determination was in error, rather, Plaintiff’s basis for appealing was only
based on a “purported change in financial circumstance that occurred after
Plaintiffs had applied for a modification of the Loan.” (Oppo., pp. 5:4–18; see
10-4-24 Aremeni Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. E.) However, Defendant provides no authority
that the Plaintiffs appeal is not within the meaning of the statute’s language that
Defendant’s determination was in error. Defendant’s error could very well mean
that Plaintiff now has a new financial situation allowing Plaintiff to mitigate
their mortgage default, and without authority supporting Defendants strict interpretation
of the statute, the Court cannot find that Plaintiff did not appeal their loan
modification properly and timely. 
 
            Additionally,
Civ. Code, § 2923.6(b) provides, “[i]t is the intent of the Legislature that
the mortgage servicer offer the borrower a loan modification or workout plan if
such a modification or plan is consistent with its contractual or other
authority.” Thus, the legislature expressly stated their intent to provide the
borrower with all available options to mitigate the default. Plaintiffs’ appeal
letter falls within the intent of the legislature, and thus Defendant’s
argument is not persuasive. 
 
            Thus,
the Court finds that Plaintiff will likely prevail on their claim for
Violations of Cal. Civ. Code § 2923.6. Defendants provide the same arguments
for the remaining causes of action, and argue they are derivative of the Violations
of Cal. Civ. Code § 2923.6, therefore the Court need not analyze the
probability of prevailing on the remaining claims.
 
III.          
Balancing hardships and Maintaing Status Quo
 
            The Court
finds that the balancing of hardships weighs in favor of Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs
argue the Plaintiffs will lose their home if the Court were to deny the request
while granting the request only postpones a possible forclosure sale for the
Defendants. The Court agrees with the plaintiffs. Additionally, the Defendant
will not lose the right to foreclose on the property pursuant to the parties’
agreement. Defendant does not provide any arguments for hardship to Defendants
if the motion is granted. 
 
            Additionally,
this injunction would effectively be in place to maintain the status quo while
the matter is in litigation, as it would prevent the exact issue from happening
which caused the filing of the case—foreclosure on the property. 
 
            Plaintiffs
meets the requirements of CCP § 526 and thus the Motion for a Preliminary
Injunction is GRANTED. The Court orders Defendant enjoined from conducting the
Trustee’s Sale referenced herein. 
            
Pursuant to CCP § 529, the Court “must
require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the
applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount
to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the
court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 529, subd (a).) Defendant does not dispute the estimated $1,195.000.00
equity in the property.  Defendant argues
the only need for a bond is to ensure property taxes and insurance payments
during the course of the litigation totaling $1,847.93 per month. (Fogleman
Decl., ¶ 14.)  
 
The Court orders the Plaintiffs to post
an undertaking of ____________ [TO BE
ADDRESSED AT THE HEARING OR FURTHER HEARING ON THE
AMOUNT OF THE BOND]