  Case Number:  LC105733    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  W DIAMOND
v. HARB, ET AL
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 1, 2024                            Trial
Date:       November 12, 2024
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        LC105733
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Vicki D. Harb,
on behalf of herself and as the personal representative of the estate of Henry
G. Harb
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Troy Mitchell  Diamond
            
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a fraudulent transfer case. Defendant Susan C. Diamond (“Susan”) and
Plaintiff Troy Diamond were husband and wife. On November 15, 2015, Judgment in
the dissolution matter of Diamond v. Diamond, Los Angeles Superior Court
Case No. BD593432, was entered in the sum of $274,409 (“Judgment”). Susan was
the legal and/or equitable owner of the subject property. On October 27, 2015,
while trial was imminent in the dissolution action between Plaintiff and Susan,
Plaintiff alleges the Harbs and Susan entered into an agreement transferring the
subject property to the Harbs with the intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
Susan’s then and future creditors, including Plaintiff in the collection of his
claim. Plaintiff’s claim against Susan accrued long before she transferred the
subject property to the Harbs because the action which led to the Judgment was
filed almost two years before the property was transferred.
 
On
November 17, 2017, Plaintiff filed a Complaint for Fraudulent Transfer against
Susan, Henry G. Harb (“Henry”), Vicki D. Harb (“Vicki”), and Does 1 through 10.
  A prior motion to leave to file an
amended answer was denied on September 1, 2023.   Defendant now renews the motion, claiming
circumstances have changed, warranting 
the relief sought. 
 
RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Leave to Amend Answer is DENIED.

 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants
collectively move the court for leave to file an amended answer to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint. Defendants concede that they previously made this
motion but it was denied more than a year ago. Nonetheless, they argue the
court should exercise its equitable powers and allow the amended answer because
plaintiff concealed the fact that he had filed another action relating to the
property against the current and additional defendants,  revealing by that action that plaintiff knows
that the Harb’s daughter and the lenders are indispensable parties, and that
failure to join indispensable parties (and other defenses) should be plead at
this juncture.   
 
This
court is authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .”
(CCP § 473(a)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure section 576, likewise, provides that
“any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the
furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the
amendment to any pleading . . .” (CCP § 576.) The determination of whether to
grant leave to file an amended pleading rests in the court’s sound
discretion. 
 
California
law generally calls for great liberality in allowing amendments to answers
because “a defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a
defense.” (Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150, 1159.) “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
 
The
four additional affirmative defenses that Defendants seek to add to their Answers
are as follows: SEVENTEENTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Failure to Name Indispensable
Parties); EIGHTEENTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Failure to Exercise Reasonable
Diligence); NINETEENTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Uncertainty and Ambiguity); and TWENTIETH
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (No Damages or Injury). 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff first argues that this is an untimely motion for
reconsideration under C.C.P. Section 1008. 
The defendants counter that the information they now know – that
plaintiff had filed another complaint naming these additional defendants whom
defendants claim are indispensable – had not yet occurred at the time this
court ruled on the motion to amend. 
Thus, the motion could not have been brought earlier and Section 1008 is
inapplicable.  With respect to the Eighteenth,
Nineteenth and Twentieth affirmative defenses, the court agrees that this
motion must be denied because it is an improper motion for
reconsideration.  There is no new fact
that supports these defenses that was not previously known to defendants.  
 
With
respect to the Seventeenth Affirmative Defense, the motion to add this defense
is not barred by Section 1008, as it is true that the new “fact” – the filing of
second complaint – occurred after the court ruled on the motion for leave to
amend the answer. The Complaint in 23STCV04616 was filed on October 26, 2023,
after this court had denied the motion for leave to amend. 
 
Nonetheless,
the court’s ruling today is unchanged from its ruling on the initial motion to
amend.   Defendants have always had
within their exclusive possession knowledge of the identity of the alleged
indispensable parties: their daughter and their lenders.  Defendants have never explained why they
delayed six years in raising their daughter and the lenders as an indispensable
party.  The new complaint filed by
plaintiff does not stand as a concession that defendant’s daughter and the
lenders are indispensable parties to this action.  The related action is a separate enforcement
action, which may or may not be bound by the decision in this case.  
 
It
is true that the courts have held that if plaintiff wants to void an allegedly
fraudulent deed, the plaintiff must join subsequent transferees (Stacy Harb)
and any deed beneficiaries of the Harbs. 
(Diamond Heights Village Assn.., Inc. v. Financial Freedom Senior
Funding Corp. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 290, 304.)  If all plaintiff seeks here is a personal
judgment against Susan Diamond and the Harbs, Stacy and the lenders are not
indispensable parties. (Id.)  As
explained in Diamond Heights on similar facts, a plaintiff is “free to
exclude” transferees and subsequent lenders from the action for fraudulent
conveyance if he seeks  “only a personal
judgment against [his former wife and the Harbs]. But if [plaintiff] wanted to
void [other parties’] interest in the property, it should have joined the deed
beneficiary as a party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 379.)  Transferees are necessary parties ‘in an
action to declare a transfer void as fraudulent.’ (Diamond Heights at
304, citing Heffernan v. Bennett & Armour (1952) 110 Cal.App.2d 564,
586–587, 243 P.2d 846.)  Plaintiff may
not “void the deed of trust without joining [transferees and lenders] as a
party and giving [them] an opportunity to defend the transfer. Trust
beneficiaries . . . ‘are necessary parties to an action affecting the security
of a deed of trust.’ (Monterey S.P. Partnership v. W.L. Bangham, Inc.
(1989) 49 Cal.3d 454, 461, 261 Cal.Rptr. 587, 777 P.2d 623; accord Sylvester
v. Sylvester (Alaska 1986) 723 P.2d 1253, 1259–1260 [mortgagee a necessary
party in fraudulent conveyance action to set aside mortgage].) A deed of trust
is,  in practical effect, a mortgage with
a power of sale. (Monterey S.P. Partnership, supra, at p. 460, 261 Cal.Rptr.
587, 777 P.2d 623.) A respected commentator on the law has noted that a
mortgagee is not indispensable to a fraudulent conveyance action “if the
conveyance is to be set aside subject to the mortgage, ... “[b]ut where the
suit is to set aside a previously given mortgage as fraudulent, then the
mortgagee is a proper party defendant.” (3A Moore, Moore's Federal Practice (2d
ed. 1996) ¶ 19.09[6], p19–191.)”  (Diamond
Heights, at p. 304.)  
 
Plaintiff
has consistently argued that amendment would fatally prejudice Plaintiff
because it would add several new facts and theories which, until now, have not
been the subject of the parties’ discovery efforts. Trial is set for November 12
– less than two weeks away.   Plaintiff correctly
points out that there is little time to conduct completely new discovery on
these topics.  Further, if defendants can
raise failure to join a third party as an indispensable party, they may also be
able to require plaintiff to now join their daughter, which will further delay
proceedings.  Plaintiff asserts that he
would prefer to proceed to trial as the case is currently plead and litigate
the issue of title in any subsequent enforcement action (should he prevail).
That action is now pending against all necessary parties in the related matter.
 If he is able to prove fraudulent
transfer at that time, full relief could be obtained without moving the current
trial date.  
 
Given
that defendants have not adequately explained their untimely motion for leave
to amend or the newly discovered information that warrants amendment, and the
significant prejudice to plaintiff,  Defendant’s Motion for Leave to Amend Answer
is DENIED.