  Case Number:  22STCV41020    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LUIS DIAZ ROJAS, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV41020
  Hearing Date:  March 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to seal documents   




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 30, 2022, Plaintiff Jane
Doe filed this action against Defendant Luis Diaz Rojas stemming from an
alleged sexual assault. 
            On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to seal documents. Defendant filed his opposition on
February 16, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on March 7, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
“Unless confidentiality is required by
law, court records are presumed to be open.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
2.550(c).) “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Id., Rule 2.550(d).) “A record
must not be filed under seal without a court order.” (Id., Rule
2.551(a).)  
DISCUSSION
            On February 8, 2023, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order to proceed under the Doe
pseudonym. Thus, all references to Plaintiff’s real name must be redacted prior
to filing. 
Plaintiff filed the instant motion
claiming that defense counsel only redacted some documents but not others.
Plaintiff expresses a concern that defense counsel may be covertly inserting
Plaintiff’s name in various filings in violation of the protective order. Plaintiff
also seeks to “seal some info of other people’s names.” Lastly, Plaintiff
requests unspecified sanctions against defense counsel, or disqualification. 
Plaintiff has not provided sufficient
information from which the Court can make the factual findings required under
Rule 2.550. Plaintiff does not identify any filing that should be sealed.
Plaintiff’s vague reference to some unidentified filings does not demonstrate
Defendant’s violation of the protective order. Likewise, the Court cannot seal
information on unspecified “other people.” While Plaintiff may proceed
anonymously, that does not automatically warrant redaction of all other names. Plaintiff
goes even further in her reply and argues that all filings in the case should
be sealed. Plaintiff provides no reason or authority for such an order.
Plaintiff’s speculation as to what Defendant may file is not a sufficient
reason to seal the record. 
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
denied because Plaintiff does not specify what sanctions she seeks, nor has
Plaintiff demonstrated any sanctionable conduct from Defendant or his counsel.
Plaintiff provides no authority to support her request to disqualify defense
counsel. Defendant’s request for sanctions is also denied for the same reasons.

CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to seal is
DENIED. Sanctions are denied. 