 Case Number:  23STCV27601    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
APRIL REYES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
TOOTSIE ROLL
  INDUSTRIES, INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV27601
  Hearing Date:  March 22, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer to complaint 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff April
Reyes filed this action against Tootsie Roll Industries, Inc., asserting (1)
fraud and (2) violation of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA). The
complaint arises from alleged deceptive packaging on Defendant’s candy product,
Blow Pop Minis (the Product). Plaintiff alleges that the size of the Product’s
packaging suggests a significantly higher quantity of product than is actually
found within. Plaintiff alleges that the package is actually less than half
full and contains an excessive amount of nonfunctional slack fill. Plaintiff is
a consumer tester who purchased the Product in Fall 2023 to test compliance and
for personal consumption. 
            On February 15, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. Plaintiff filed her opposition on
March 11, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on March 15, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether a
pleading states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the pleading, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action or defense. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Friend Decl.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS AND JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff’s objections to the Friend
Declaration are sustained. (Evid. Code, §§ 210, 352.)
            Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is granted as to Exhibits 2 and 3 and denied as to Exhibit 1. (Evid.
Code, §§ 451-452.)  
DISCUSSION
I.
Safe Harbor
            CLRA prohibits deceptive practices
in connection with the sale of goods or services. (Bus. & Prof. Code, §§
1750 et seq.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated CLRA in the
following ways: “(1) misrepresenting the approval of the Product as compliant
with 21 C.F.R § 100.100 and the Sherman Law; (2) representing the Product has
characteristics and quantities that it does not have; (3) advertising and
packaging the Product with intent not to sell it as advertised and packaged; and
(4) representing that the Product has been supplied in accordance with a
previous representation as to the quantity of product contained within each
package, when it has not.” (Compl. ¶ 40.) 
            Plaintiff also alleges that none of
the slack fill exceptions in 21 C.F.R. § 100.100 applies to the Product.
(Compl. ¶¶ 20-32.) For example, Plaintiff alleges that the packaging is not
necessary for the protection of the Product, is not a result of the packaging
process, etc. Defendant argues that these allegations are conclusory. However,
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient ultimate facts for pleading purposes. A
demurrer is not the place to test specific evidentiary facts proving or
disproving the exceptions. Defendant also cites no authority requiring a
plaintiff to affirmatively plead the non-applicability of each exception as an
element of their CLRA claim.
            Defendant further argues that the
packaging falls under one of the exceptions enumerated in Business and
Professions Code section 12606.2, which defines nonfunctional slack fill as the
empty space in a packaging that exists for a reason other than those listed. One
of the listed exceptions is if “[t]he actual size of the product or immediate
product container is clearly and conspicuously depicted on any side of the
exterior packaging, excluding the bottom, accompanied by a clear and
conspicuous disclosure that the depiction is the ‘actual size’ of the product
or immediate product container.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 12606.2(c)(7)(B).) The
image of the packaging for the Product, which Plaintiff incorporates into her
complaint, shows that the packaging contains a depiction of the “actual size”
of the product. (See Compl. ¶ 3; Def.’s RJN, Ex. 3.) 
            However, Section 12606.2(c)(7)(B)
requires the actual size disclosure to be “clearly and conspicuously depicted.”
Whether the particular disclosure in this case was clear and conspicuous cannot
be resolved on a demurrer. The fact that the image of the packaging is
incorporated into the complaint does not authorize the Court to decide at the pleading
stage whether the disclosure was clear and conspicuous. This role is reserved
for the trier of fact. Whether a reasonable consumer is likely to be deceived
by the packaging is likewise a factual issue. Ultimately, Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts establishing a violation of CLRA. 
II.
Fraud
“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with
general and conclusory allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.)
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant continuously misrepresented through its website,
marketing materials, and packaging that the package was full of product when it
was actually less than half full. (Compl. ¶ 34.) Plaintiff herself was
allegedly deceived in Fall 2023 when she purchased the Product. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew the package was mostly empty and that
Defendant intended for consumers to purchase the Product on the belief that the
package would be full. (Id., ¶¶ 35-36.) Plaintiff alleges that she
reasonably relied on the size of the package and was induced into purchasing
the Product. (Id., ¶¶ 37-38.) These allegations satisfy the elements of
fraud with the requisite specificity. 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff fails to allege any false statement. However, “a cause of action
based in fraud may arise from conduct that is designed to mislead, and not only
from verbal or written statements.” (Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue
Cross of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 839.) Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant misrepresented the quantity of product within a package through
the size of the package. This is a sufficient basis for fraud. 
Defendant also
argues that Plaintiff’s reliance on the package size is not reasonable given
the “actual size” disclosure. However, as discussed above, there is a factual
dispute over whether the actual size depiction was clear and conspicuous.
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged reasonable reliance for pleading purposes.
Lastly,
Defendant argues that its intent has not been adequately pled. However, at the pleading
stage, “it is not necessary to allege the circumstantial evidence from which it
may be inferred that the representation or promise was false -- these are
evidentiary matters which give rise to the misrepresentation. The only
essential allegation is the general statement that the representation or
promise was false and that the defendant knew it to be false at the time it was
made.” (Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974) 43
Cal.App.3d 145, 151.) Intent is generally an allegation of ultimate fact. (See
Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.) Therefore, the fraud claim is adequately
pled. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 