 Case Number:  23STCV27343    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV27343




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Hollywood Inn, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Luis Hernandez



 
MOTION
              Defendants
Hollywood Inn, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration of the claims
Plaintiff Luis Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) asserts against Defendant.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.  Plaintiff also filed an amended
complaint.  Plaintiff had the right to
amend his complaint without leave of court before Defendant responded to the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 472.)  However, Plaintiff did not file the amended
complaint until after Defendant had filed and served this motion to compel
arbitration.  As such, the Court
disregards the first amended complaint.  
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendant presents
an arbitration agreement that Plaintiff signed when Plaintiff worked for Defendant.  The arbitration agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendant agree to “utilize binding individual arbitration to
resolve all disputes that might arise out of or be related in any way to [Plaintiff’s]
employment by [Defendant].”  (Declaration
of Atul Madhav in Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration, Exhibit A.)  Accordingly, Defendant meets its burden to
show an agreement to arbitrate covers Plaintiff’s claims.  
The arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed specifies the
Federal Arbitration Act governs.  (Declaration
of Atul Madhav in Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration, Exhibit A.)  A choice of law
provision in an arbitration agreement is enforceable.  (See Coopers
& Lybrand v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 524, 538.)  As
such, the Federal Arbitration Act applies. 

Plaintiff argues
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of
2021, which became law on March 3, 2022, bars arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims.  This law amends the Federal
Arbitration Act to provide, “at the election of the person alleging conduct
constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or the
named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such conduct,
no predispute arbitration agreement . . . shall be valid or enforceable with
respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and
relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.”    (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).)  For purposes of this law, a sexual assault
dispute is “a dispute involving a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact .
. . , including when the victim lacks capacity to consent . . . ,” and a sexual
harassment dispute is “a dispute relating to conduct that is         alleged to constitute sexual
harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.  (9 U.S.C. § 401(3)-(4).)  The law applies to “any dispute or claim that
arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act.”  (9 U.S.C. § 401 note.) In this case,
Plaintiff’s claims arose after May 2, 2022. 
(Complaint, ¶ 9.)  Accordingly,
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
Act of 2021 applies to this case.  
In the operative
complaint, however, Plaintiff does not assert a claim for sexual harassment or
sexual assault.  Further, even if the
Court were to consider Plaintiff’s unauthorized first amended complaint,
Plaintiff does not assert a claim for sexual harassment because in order to do
so, Plaintiff must allege Defendant subjected Plaintiff to “sexual
propositions, unwarranted graphic discussion of sexual acts, and commentary on
the employee's body and the sexual uses to which it could be put . . . ,” or
that “an employer created a hostile environment for an employee because of that
employee's sex.”  (Mogilefsky v.
Superior Court (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1409, 1415.)  In this matter, Plaintiff alleges Defendants
refused to permit Plaintiff’s boyfriend to move in with him at the housing
Defendants provided for him.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 36.)  That is discrimination against Plaintiff “in
compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment . . . ,” not
harassment.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(a).)  Accordingly, the Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 does not
bar arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to arbitrate is granted.  This
case is stayed pending arbitration.  The
Court sets an order to show case re: status of arbitration to be heard on
January 9, 2025.
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 