 Case Number:  23STCV18072    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV18072




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants AQP Property Management and Station 11, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Maria Victoria Martinez and Farid Martinez



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Maria
Victoria Martinez (“Victoria”) and Farid Martinez assert habitability
violations against Defendants AQP Property Management and Station 11, LLC.  Defendants demur to the fifth, eighth, and
ninth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint.  Defendants also move to strike portions of
the first amended complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose
the motions.  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiffs’ fifth
cause of action is under the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (“Rosenthal
Act”).  That provision regulates the collection
of consumer debts incurred to acquire property, services, or money for
personal, family, or household use on credit.  (Civ. Code, § 1788.2, subds. (b), (e), (f),
(h).)  The Rosenthal Act applies to persons
and entities “who, in the ordinary course of business, regularly, on behalf of
that person or others engage in debt collection,” or who compose and sell
forms, letters, and other collection materials.  (Civ. Code, § 1788.2, subds. (c), (g).)  
In this case,
Plaintiffs allege Defendants are debt collectors because Defendants collected utility
payments from Plaintiffs, and Plaintiffs used utilities on credit.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 121-122.)  However, Plaintiffs allege Defendants
fraudulently charged Plaintiffs for electricity and gas, for which Plaintiffs
had already paid.  (Id., ¶¶ 52-56.)  Plaintiffs, therefore, do not allege Defendants
were collecting payment for purchases Plaintiffs made on credit, but rather Defendants
were wrongfully overcharging Plaintiffs. 
Further, Plaintiffs do not allege Defendants regularly engaged in this
scheme, such that it is part of the ordinary course of Defendants’ business.  Plaintiffs’ citation to cases in support of
their contention is unavailing.  (See,
e.g., Calvary SPV I, LLC v. Watkins (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 1070, 1085 [debt
at issue based on use of a personal gasoline credit card]; Davidson v.
Seterus, Inc., (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 283, 296-297 [court addressed the
issue of whether collecting mortgage debt, not paying for utilities, falls
under the Rosenthal Act]; Gouskos v. Aptos Village Garage, Inc. (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 754, 759 [court found the automobile repair transaction at issue
did not constitute a consumer credit transaction].)  In the instant matter, Defendants’ alleged
conduct does not fall within the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.
Plaintiffs’ eighth
cause of action is under the Unruh Civil Rights Act (“Unruh Act”).  To state a cause of action under the Unruh Act,
Plaintiff must allege Defendants are business establishments that intentionally
denied Plaintiff full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities,
privileges, or services based on Plaintiff’s sex, race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, marital status, or
sexual orientation. (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (b).)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants discriminated
against Victoria because of her gender and national origin by pressuring her to
leave the property.  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 146.)  These allegations
suffice for pleading purposes.  The
essence of Defendants’ argument is that they do not believe Plaintiffs’
allegations.  Plaintiffs’ credibility is
not at issue on demurrer.  Defendants may
obtain further information regarding the veracity of Plaintiff’s allegations during
discovery.  
Plaintiffs’ ninth
cause of action is for housing discrimination under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act.  It is unlawful “[f]or the
owner of any housing accommodation to discriminate against or harass any person
because of the race, color, religion, sex, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial
status, source of income, disability, or genetic information of that person.”
(Gov. Code, § 12955, subd. (a).)  Again,
Plaintiffs allege Defendants discriminated against Victoria based on her gender
and national origin.  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 158.)  These allegations
suffice for pleading purposes.
Defendants also
move to strike the prayer for punitive damages. To state a prima facie claim
for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the
punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294. (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) In that regard, a plaintiff must
allege the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others.” (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is
not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)
In the instant
matter, Plaintiffs allege, “Defendant’s acts were willful, malicious, and
oppressive, amounting to despicable conduct that subjected Plaintiffs to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of their rights, so as to entitle
Plaintiffs to an award of punitive and exemplary damages in an amount to be
determined at trial.”  (First Amended
Complaint, ¶ 100.)  Plaintiffs do not
allege specific facts to support these conclusions.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to
strike with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  The demurrer is otherwise overruled.
The Court grants
Defendants’ motion to strike the punitive damages allegations with leave to
amend. 
Plaintiffs are to
file an amended complaint within 10 days of the issuance of this ruling.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 