 Case Number:  23TRCP00328    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  B ENJOYOR TECHNOLOGY CO. LTD. vs XIN LI, et al.
Case no. 23TRCP00328
Before the Court is the Demurrer to the Third, Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action in the Verified Second Amended Complaint.  These three causes of action are all claims
of fraudulent conveyance.  The Court
previously sustained the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint and
articulated in great detail the deficiency in the First Amended Complaint in the
Court’s 12 page single spaced Ruling. 
The Court shall not burden the parties with a repetitive statement of
the basis for its ruling on this Demurrer. 
It is sufficient to state that the Verified Second Amended Complaint
changed nothing material to the analysis. 
All that was articulated previously applies to this Second Amended
Complaint.
The Demurrer to the Third, Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
In summary, this lawsuit arises from a judgment obtained by
Plaintiff in China against Defendant Xin Li. 
Plaintiff desires to obtain a California Judgment based on the China
judgment.  However, in addition to
obtaining a California Judgment, it seeks to impose direct liability on
Defendant Wei Lai Development LLC, an entity formed and 100% owned by Defendant
(and potential judgment debtor) Li.
It had been consistently alleged by Plaintiff that Xin Li
formed and is the sole owner of Defendant Wei Lai Development LLC.  Plaintiff alleges that Li acquired two very
expensive homes in San Marino and Rancho Palos Verdes.  Li formed Wei Lai Development LLC.  Li then transferred (at different times) both
homes to Wei Lai Development LLC.  Wei Lai
Development LLC is owned entirely by Li. 
These transfers by Li of her ownership of the two homes into the LLC (which
Li alone owns) are alleged by Plaintiff to constitute fraudulent convenances.  Plaintiff articulates its fraudulent
conveyance theory as follows:
“Legally, [the Demurrer] unduly
relies on the Court’s comments on the previous complaint, but ignores (i) the
additional, specific factual allegations and (ii) the newly clarified legal
theory stated in the Second Amended Complaint.  Namely, the second transfer of the Rancho
Palos Verde mansion (not the first transfer of the San Marino Luxury House) was
not supported by any equivalent exchange of valuables between Defendant Li and
her shell LLC.  Because Defendant
Li received all the shell LLC’s membership during the first transfer, and the
shell LLC thus did not transfer any additional LLC membership to Defendant Li
even after receiving the $5 million Rancho Palos Verde Mansion from Li. In
essence, the shell LLC gained the $5 million Rancho Palos Verde Mansion for
free, and Li made herself judgment-proof to discourage creditors like Plaintiff.”  (Opposition pg. 1:3-15.)  (Bold and italics added.)
In a nutshell, this assertion is illogical.  The Court has previously noted in its ruling
that the value of the LLC increased by the value of the home that was transferred
to it.  It is irrelevant that Li owned
100% of the LLC both before and after the transfer of the homes.  There is no change in the value and the
ownership remains with Li through her LLC.
It makes no sense to the Court for Plaintiff to say that
since Li owned 100% of the LLC before the transfer of the second home into the
LLC, she received no value when she transferred the home into the LLC.  What Plaintiff ignores is the critical fact
that THE VALUE OF THE LLC INCREASED PRECISELY BY THE VALUE OF THE HOME.  Hence, whatever value existed when Li had the
ownership in her own name was the same value she had when the home was in the
name of the LLC.
[Plaintiff’s confusion arises from its fixation on the
percentage ownership – an unchanged 100% – rather than the value of the LLC
before and after the conveyance.  The
Court is certain that Plaintiff understands that the value of the LLC was
increased by the value of the home transferred to it.]
ORDER:
The Demurrer to the Third, Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant shall file an Answer only to the Second Amended Complaint,
First and Second Causes of Action within 20 days.