 Case Number:  24TRCV02078    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  B 24TRCV02078
SUSAN SPELL vs ELLIOTT WEATHERSBY
Plaintiff Susan Spell filed her Complaint on June 21, 2024.  She is self-represented, although she informed
the Court that she has legal counsel assisting her.  The named defendant is Elliott Weathersby, the
Weathersby Family Trust (Trustee).  Elliott
Weathersby, also self-represented, filed his Answer on July 25, 2024.  On October 16, 2024 the Court granted
Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion to Strike portions of the Answer affirmative
defenses as they were not properly set forth separately as required by C.C.P. § 431.30(g).  The Court granted Defendant 40 days leave to
amend.  The Amended Answer was filed
December 13, 2024.
Also on October 16, 2024 the Court granted Plaintiffs Motion
to Deem Facts Admitted, Motion to Compel Defendant to Respond to Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Motion to Compel Verified Response to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production, Set One.
At the same time the Court ordered the parties to the
Mediation Volunteer Panel for mediation to be completed by January 17, 2025.
Before the Court is the Plaintiff’s Motion for Issue or
Terminating Sanctions filed on December 13, 2024.  Plaintiff seeks an issue preclusion order
establishing numerous issues.  Plaintiff also
suggests that the Court should not require her to file a Motion for Summary
Judgment as certain facts are “deemed admitted.”
“In light of the deemed admissions,
Defendant’s failure to file an Amended Answer, and his defiance of the Court’s
orders compelling the responses to Plaintiff’s discovery, issue sanctions are
the minimum that would be “just”, followed by a motion for summary judgment.  However, given Defendant’s total refusal to
participate as ordered, and the deemed admissions, it appears that a
termination sanction of entering Defendant’s default would be not only just,
but quite appropriate.  There is no need
to require Plaintiff to file, and the Court to hear, a motion for summary
judgment when the result of the admissions and issue sanctions would render
such an additional motion redundant.
The Court should order Defendant’s
default, or at least the issue sanctions of the issues identified below.”  (Motion pg. 2:24-3:6.)
A WORD ABOUT SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Plaintiff’s suggestion that she need not file a motion for
summary judgment as the “deemed admissions” and requested discovery issue
sanctions obviate the need for a summary judgment motion is misplaced.  If the facts deemed admitted or issues that
are resolved as a discovery sanction allow a party to win the case, the party
still must bring that to the court by filing a motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff can not merely suggest that she
wins because of the various discovery rulings.
DEFAULT
Plaintiff suggests that the Court should enter the default of
Defendant for not timely serving the Amended Answer.  However, the Amended Answer was filed
December 13, 2024, the same day as the Motion was filed.  Also, the motion to strike went to the
affirmative defenses.  Plaintiff was
therefore not in default as the Defendant answered the Complaint.  In any event, no action relative to the
Amended Answer is appropriate since the Amended Answer was filed December 13,
2024.  The request to enter the default of
Defendant is DENIED.
DISCOVERY ISSUE SANCTION
Plaintiff states in her Declaration under penalty of perjury
that she has “not received any responses to discovery…”  (Declaration pg. 10:8-9.)  Defendant acknowledges in his Opposition that
the discovery responses “were not submitted on time.”  (Opposition pg. 2:8.)  He states that the delay in responding to the
discovery was the result of “serious personal health issues that temporarily incapacitated
him.”  (Opposition pg. 2:9-10.).  Importantly, Defendant claims that “Defendant
has now submitted the requested responses, albeit late,…”  (Opposition pg. 2:19-20.)  (Defendant has failed to provide his information
by way of a declaration under penalty of perjury, and thus the evidence is defective.
Plaintiff did not file a Reply informing the Court whether
she agrees that responses to the discovery have now been served.
Assuming the accuracy of the Defendant’s Opposition, the
Court does not believe that an issue sanction is necessary or appropriate.
MONETARY SANCTIONS
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $2,000.  She seeks to recover attorney’s fees as a
sanction.  She states that she paid an
attorney $1,500 to assist her in drafting the present Motion.  (She also claims to have paid an attorney
$1,000 for the prior motion.).  She notes
that when she retains an attorney to prepare her legal papers she may recover
those fees, even when she is self-represented. 
Mix. V. Tumanjan Development Corp.
(2002) 102 Cal.App.4th
1318, 1324.  That case does so provide.
Plaintiff notes
that she attempted to meet and confer with Defendant, and has attached a copy
of her December 4, 2024 letter to Defendant. 
Defendant failed to respond to the Plaintiff.  
The Court had
previously ordered Defendant to provide the discovery responses.  When he understood that he would not be in
compliance with the Court’s Order, if he believed that he should not be held
responsible for violating that Order he should have made an effort to inform
Plaintiff of the excuse that he believed he had for his untimely responses, so
that he might convince Plaintiff to hold off filing a motion.  He did not so inform Plaintiff and he bears
the consequences of having failed to timely respond and forced Plaintiff to
file this Motion.
The Court finds
that the reasonable attorney fees for this motion is $350.  Defendant is ordered to pay to Plaintiff as a
discovery sanction the amount of $350 within 45 days of the date of service of
notice of this Order.
The Court re-emphasizes that it expects the parties to
fulfil their obligations to comply with the discovery statutes.
ORDER:
1.  The Motion to
enter the default of Defendant is DENIED;
2.  The Motion for
Issue Sanctions is DENIED;
3.  The Motion for
Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to pay to Plaintiff as
a discovery sanction the amount of $350 within 45 days of the date of service
of notice of this Order.