 Case Number:  23SMCV03662    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 8, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03662




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Steven J. Barkin




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Steven J. Barkin of the Law Offices
of Steven J. Barkin, counsel for Plaintiffs Stradella Equity Holdings, LLC and
Aveta Parsazad (“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel. No opposition has
been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be
accompanied by a declaration indicating that the address served is the current
address, or in the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last
known address and a more current address could not be located after reasonable
efforts within 30 days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in litigation,
or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of harassing or
maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)          
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The Court previously noted:
 
Counsel has filed forms MC-051, MC-052, and
MC-053 and a proof of service. The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates that
the motion was filed instead of filing a consent because “A breakdown in
communication has arisen between the attorney and his clients which makes it
impossible for the attorney to provide effective counsel to the clients.” Rule
1.16(b)(4) permits withdrawal where “the client by other conduct renders it
unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]”
As such, the motion is substantively proper. 

 
(See
November 13, 2023 Minute Order.)       
 
However, the prior proof of service did not indicate the proposed
order, MC-053, was served on the clients, as is required by Rule 3.1362(d).
 
Counsel has since filed a proof of service, indicating that the
clients were served with the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and
proposed order by mail on November 14, 2023. 
Thus, Counsel has complied with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd. (d) [“The notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or
mail.”]  Paragraph 3(b) of the attorney
declaration (MC-052) confirms that the client’s last known mailing address has
been confirmed within the past 30 days and is current, in conformance with
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subd.(d)(1)(A).  Therefore, the motion is procedurally proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
Counsel must serve the signed order (form MC-053), which shall include
information about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any party, or
ordered by the Court, on all parties who have appeared in the action, within 10
days of the date of this Order, and file a proof of service of such.  Counsel will remain the attorney of record
for Plaintiffs until Counsel files the requisite proof of service.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  
            
 
 
DATED:  December 8, 2023                          ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 