 Case Number:  23SMCV00589    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 8, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV00589




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant NAI Capital Commercial, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Alexander Rivkin, MD



 
MOTION
 
Defendant NAI Capital Commercial, Inc. (“Defendant”) demurs to all
three causes of action alleged in Plaintiff Alexander Rivkin, MD’s
(“Plaintiff”) Complaint.
 
This case stems from a dispute over the failed purchase of an
apartment building.  Plaintiff Alexander
Rivkin, MD (“Plaintiff”) brought suit against realtor Defendant Mario Gandara
(“Gandara”) and Gandara’s company, Defendant NAI Capital Commercial, Inc.
(“NAI”) alleging three causes of action: (1) negligent misrepresentation; (2)
professional negligence; and (3) breach of contract.  
 
NAI demurs to all three causes of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f) on the bases that they fail
to state a cause of action and are uncertain. 
Additionally, NAI demurs to the third cause of action for breach of
contract pursuant to subdivision (g) on the basis that it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct. 
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and NAI replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            NAI requests the Court take judicial
notice of the following two Los Angeles Municipal Code ordinances:
 
·        
Ordinance No. 186585, adding Article 14.6 to the
Los Angeles Municipal Code, regarding evictions during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
·        
Ordinance No. 186696, amending Article 14.6 of
Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, regarding tenant protections
during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
The request is unopposed.  
 
The Court may properly take
judicial notice of “[r]egulations and legislative enactments issued by or under
the authority of the United States or any public entity in the United
States.”  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (b).)  In particular, local ordinances are properly
the subject of judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(b).  (Martin v. City of Corning (1972)
25 Cal.App.3d 165, 167, fn. 1.)
 
Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the requested ordinances.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
NAI contends that there are no allegations as to NAI specifically, or
connecting the conduct of Gandara to NAI. 

 
The Complaint alleges:
 
3.         Defendant MARIO
GANDARA is, and at all times herein mentioned was, an individual and resident
of the County of Los Angeles, in the State of California.  Defendant MARIO GANDARA is a
California-licensed real estate broker and salesperson.
 
4.         Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and thereon alleges, that [NAI] is a California Corporation,
authorized to conduct business in the state of California as a Real Estate
Brokerage Firm.
 
5.         Plaintiff is informed
and believes, and thereon alleges, that Defendant MARIO GANDARA (hereinafter
“GANDARA”) is the Vice-President of [NAI].
 
            7.         Plaintiff
is informed and believes, and thereon alleges that at all times herein
mentioned, each of the Defendants sued herein was the agent and/or employee of
each of the remaining Defendants and was at all times acting within the purpose
and scope of such agency and employment.
 
(Compl.
¶¶ 3-5, 7.)  
 
            Moreover, the Purchase Agreement,
attached as Exhibit 1 to the Complaint, lists the “Buyer’s Brokerage Firm” as
“NAI Capital Mario Gandara” and the “Buyer’s Agent” as “Mario Gandara,” both
under License Number 01898787.  
 
            While the Court agrees that the
Complaint could be more explicit in expressly connecting the conduct of Gandara
to NAI,  taken as a whole, Plaintiff
alleges that Gandara’s actions, as set forth in the Complaint, were made “as
the agent and/or employee” on behalf of and through NAI, the buyer’s brokerage
firm for the transaction.  
 
As such, NAI does not demonstrate that any portions of the Complaint
are so bad that NAI cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what claims are directed against it. 
The Court thus declines to sustain NAI’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
NAI argues (1) the Purchase Agreement and Buyer’s Inspection Advisory
attached to the complaint preclude the recovery Plaintiff seeks; (2) the
Complaint contains no allegations as to NAI; (3) Plaintiff fails to state a
misrepresentation, justifiable reliance, or damages to support his negligent
misrepresentation claim; (4) Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for
professional negligence; and (5) Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for
breach of contract.
 
                                                                   
i.           
Demurrer
Based on the Purchase Agreement and Buyer’s Inspection Advisory
 
NAI first contends that its
demurrer should be sustained as to all causes of action, because the causes of
action rely on Plaintiff’s claims that “he purportedly relied upon NAI/Gandara
to inspect public records and ordinances regarding use of the property, to
provide legal advice regarding tenant evictions, and, indeed, to predict the
future (specifically, when the eviction moratorium enacted in response to the
Covid-19 pandemic would be lifted)”.  Yet,
the terms of the Purchase Agreement and Buyer’s Inspection Advisory contradict
Plaintiff’s assertion that these were NAI’s, as opposed to Plaintiff’s
responsibility, and the terms expressly disclosed to Plaintiff information he
claims NAI withheld.  (Demurrer at pp. 4-8.)
 
This argument conflates
whether Plaintiff has validly asserted a claim, taking all allegations in the
Complaint as true, with whether Plaintiff will ultimately prevail on the merits
of his claims.  Thus, at this stage of
the litigation, whether there exists some evidence suggesting that Plaintiff
may or may not ultimately prevail on his claims, is irrelevant in determining
whether Plaintiff has stated a cause of action.
 
Therefore, the Purchase
Agreement and Buyer’s Inspection Advisory do not warrant sustaining a demurrer
at this stage of the litigation.  
 
                                                                 
ii.           
No
Allegations as to NAI
 
As discussed above, taken as a
whole, and in context, the Complaint sufficiently alleges that the conduct of
Gandara was made as an agent for and on behalf of NAI.  Therefore, the fact that there are no “direct”
allegations as to NAI is not fatal to Plaintiff’s claims.
 
                                                               
iii.           
First
Cause of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent misrepresentation are (1) the defendant
represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that
representation was false; (3) the defendant had no reasonable grounds for
believing the misrepresentation to be true when made; (4) the defendant
intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff
reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7)
the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial
factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff. 
(Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594,
605–606; Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231; see
also CACI No. 1903 (2023 ed.).)  
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman v. Skype Inc.,
supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
NAI contends the Complaint does not allege NAI made any affirmative
misrepresentations; any justifiable reliance; or damages.
 
Affirmative Misrepresentations
 
NAI first contends the Complaint does not allege NAI made any affirmative
misrepresentation, because the alleged representations about when the pandemic
restrictions would be lifted were non-actionable opinions and speculation; the
failure to disclose that Plaintiff would lose his $132,000 deposit is not an
affirmative misrepresentation; and these disclosures were all properly made in
any event via the purchase agreement and buyer’s inspection advisory.
 
  The Court disagrees.  With respect to affirmative
misrepresentation, the Complaint alleges:
 
35. In order to induce and encourage Plaintiff RIVKIN to enter into
the Purchase Agreement and financially commit to acquiring the subject income
producing property for $4,375,000.00 and paying an initial deposit in the sum
of $132,000.00, Defendant GANDARA made an unwarranted, baseless, and untrue
assertion by affirmatively representing to Plaintiff RIVKIN that he would not
lose his $132,000.00 initial deposit and that he would be able to evict
existing tenants and/or increase their monthly rent within a few months, so as
to have a positive cash flow if he were to purchase the subject property.
 
36. Defendant GANDARA further erroneously represented to Plaintiff
RIVKIN that the Covid-19 Moratoriums against landlords would be ending within a
few months (July 2020) and Plaintiff RIVKIN would not be hindered by the
onerous restrictions of the existing Moratoriums and would have the ability to
either evict tenants, increase their monthly rent, or both. Defendant GANDARA
further failed to disclose the fact that even if the Covid-19 eviction
moratoriums ended, the subject apartment buildings would still be subject to
the limitations and restrictions of the RSO which Plaintiff had previously made
clear to Defendant GANDARA would be a deal breaker.
 
37. The representations made by Defendant GANDARA with respect to the
initial deposit and the Covid-19 Moratoriums concerning evictions and rent
increases, were specific and direct statements made to Plaintiff RIVKIN without
any reasonable ground for believing them to be true or in a manner not
warranted by available is information to Defendant GANDARA, or information he
should have known.
 
38. Not only did the Covid-19 eviction and rent increase Moratoriums
continue throughout the year of 2021, they were extended for the entire year of
2022, and a part of 2023. In addition, the significant limitations and
restrictions of the applicable RSO are still in existence to this date.
 
Thus, Plaintiff alleges several affirmative misrepresentations,
including that NAI affirmatively misrepresented that Plaintiff would not lose
his $132,000 deposit.
 
Justifiable Reliance
 
NAI next contends that investors like Plaintiff are legally precluded
from relying on another party’s representations.  In support, NAI cites Bank of America Nat.
Trust & Sav. Ass’n v. Vannini (1956) 140 Cal.App.2d 120.  Bank of America is
distinguishable.  There, the contract at
issue provided a 17-month due diligence period during which time the plaintiff
was supposed to (but did not actually) conduct investigations, and after which
time the plaintiff had an option to purchase. 
By contrast, here, there was no due diligence or investigation
period.  With regard to justifiable
reliance, Plaintiff alleges:
 
39. The representations and or failures to disclose made by Defendant
GANDARA were made with the intent to induce Plaintiff to act in reliance on
them and specifically to enter into the Purchase Agreement and/or not cancel
the Purchase Agreement within the permissible timeframe during escrow.
 
40. Plaintiff RIVKIN reasonably relied to his financial detriment on
the affirmative representations made by Defendant GANDARA and his reliance was
justified based on Defendant GANDARA's assurances, statements and
representations about his expertise, knowledge, and abilities in representing
buyers of apartment buildings.
 
(Compl.
¶¶ 39-40.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged justifiable reliance.
 
Damages
 
Finally, NAI contends the Complaint fails to allege damages because Plaintiff’s
decision to cancel escrow is what caused his deposit being forfeited, as the liquidated
damages clause of the purchase agreement indicated would happen.  The Court again disagrees.  With respect to damages, Plaintiff alleges:
 
41. As a result of Plaintiffs justifiable reliance on Defendant
GANDARA'S affirmative representations, Plaintiff RIVKIN agreed to purchase the
subject apartment building and pay into escrow the initial deposit in the sum
of $132,000.00 plus interest at a rate of and from a date according to proof.
Plaintiffs reliance on the assurances, representations, and statements made by
Defendant GANDARA as well as the non disclosures were the immediate cause of
Plaintiff agreeing to purchase the subject apartment building and not cancel
escrow during the allowable timeframe. Plaintiff would not have financially
committed to the subject acquisition but for the  misrepresentations or non-disclosures made by
Defendant GANDARA.
 
42. When Plaintiff RIVKIN finally discovered the truth about the
impact of the Covid-19 Moratoriums and their corresponding effect on his
planned investment or purchase of the subject apartment building including his
discovery that the subject apartment building was subject to a RSO, Plaintiff
reasonably determined that he could not purchase the subject property without
suffering a major financial loss. However, this discovery was not made by
Plaintiff RIVKIN until after the contingency period had been removed which
event occurred as a direct result of the representations and assurances, as
well as the failures to make accurate disclosures, that were falsely made by
Defendant GANDARA.
 
43. As a result of the clear and compelling evidence that the purchase
of the subject apartment building would result in financial suicide or a
significant negative cash flow. Plaintiff RIVKIN was left with no alternative
but to cancel the escrow which resulted in the loss of his initial deposit in
the sum of $132,000.00. 
 
44. As a direct and proximate result of the negligent
misrepresentations made by Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff lost his
initial purchase-deposit in the sum of $132,000.00, plus interest thereon at an
interest rate permitted by law from and after a date according to proof.
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 35-44.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
that he incurred damages of $132,000 as a result of NAI’s alleged
misrepresentations.
 
                                                               
iv.           
Second Cause of Action – Professional
Negligence
 
“To state a cause of action
for professional negligence, a party must show “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional negligence.”  (Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
 
NAI contends Plaintiff has not
alleged a breach of any such duty.  With
regard to breach, the Complaint alleges:
 
47. The affirmative representations and statements of Defendant
GANDARA to Plaintiff RIVKIN that he would not lose Plaintiffs deposit in the
sum of $132,000.00 or that Plaintiff RIVKIN could evict tenants and/or raise
their monthly rent were deliberate actions, conduct, representations, and
statements by Defendant GANDARA that were not compatible with the standard of
care exercised by a reasonable and a prudent California real estate broker or
salesperson, particularly during the middle of a worldwide Covid-19 pandemic
with a multitude of Moratoriums in place including those 4 prohibiting
landlords from taking certain actions against their tenants. In addition,
defendant GANDARA failed to disclose the fact that the subject apartment
building was governed by the Los Angeles RSO, and the consequences that would
flow to the management and operation of the apartment building because of said
RSO regulations.
 
(Compl.
¶ 47.)  Therefore, the Complaint
sufficiently alleges NAI breached its professional duty of care.
 
                                                                 
v.           
Third
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
NAI contends Plaintiff fails
to state a cause of action for breach of contract because (1) Plaintiff “fails
to plead with any degree of specificity either the terms of that contract, the
consideration therefore, or its alleged breach” and (2) because the alleged
oral contract “is belied by” the purchase agreement.  
 
With regard to the terms and
breach of the contract, the Complaint alleges:
 
51. On or about February 24, 2021, Plaintiff RIVKIN and Defendants
entered into a verbal contract wherein and whereby Plaintiff and Defendants
agreed that Defendants would perform professional services as a real estate
broker in assisting Plaintiff in acquiring and purchasing an apartment building
as an income-producing investment. In exchange for said professional services,
Plaintiff agreed to pay a monetary commission based on the total sales price of
the property.
 
52. Defendants, and each of them, breached the terms of the verbal
contract with Plaintiff by their failure and refusal to competently perform the
professional services they agreed to provide for Plaintiff.
 
Thus, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the material terms of the alleged
verbal contract.  With respect to breach,
NAI alleges that there is no consideration for the alleged verbal contract
because the purchase agreement provides that NAI and Gandara, as buyer’s agent,
are to be compensated for their real estate services by the seller of the
property.  As discussed above, the
purchase agreement is not a basis to sustain a demurrer at the pleadings
stage.  Moreover, just because the
written purchase agreement provides that Defendants are to be paid by the
seller from the proceeds of the sale does not mean that the parties did not
enter into a verbal agreement whereby Plaintiff would also pay Plaintiffs “a
monetary commission based on the total sales price of the property” as alleged.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently states a cause of action for breach
of contract.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules NAI’s Demurrer to the
Complaint.  Further, the Court orders NAI
to file and serve an Answer to the Complaint on or before December 22, 2023.
 
NAI shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  December 8, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court