  Case Number:  22STCV08893    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  40  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



SASHAE GARCIA, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MOLINA HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware Corporation; MARLENE GROSCH,
  an individual; and DOES 1-20,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV08893
 Hearing Date:   5/17/24
 Trial Date:        7/16/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Molina
  Healthcare, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
  Summary Adjudication.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Sashae Garcia
sues Defendant Molina Healthcare, Inc. (MHI), Marlene Grosch, and Does 1-20
pursuant to a March 14, 2022, Complaint alleging claims of (1) Discrimination
on the Basis of Medical Condition and/or Disability in Violation of FEHA, (2)
Retaliation for Complaining of Discrimination on the Basis of Medical Condition
and/or Disability in Violation of FEHA, (3) Failure to Prevent Discrimination
and Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (4) Failure to Accommodate, (5) Failure
to Engage in the Interactive Process, (6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy, and (7) Violation of California Labor Code Section 203 (Waiting
Time Penalties).
The claims arise from
the following allegations. Around November 2014, MHI hired Plaintiff to work as
a clerk. Around 2018, Plaintiff was promoted to the position of coordinator. Throughout
Plaintiff’s employment, MHI was aware that Plaintiff had mental health
disabilities and suffered from bipolar disorder. To that end, Plaintiff needed
accommodations from time to time to take care of her mental health, including
requesting medical leave. Plaintiff was on medical leave from on or around
August 25, 2021, to January 20, 2022. On or around January 4, 2022, a mere 16
days prior to her scheduled return, MHI claimed that it could no longer hold Plaintiff’s
position until her return on January 20, 2022, and informed Plaintiff that it
had backfilled her position. MHI then terminated Plaintiff’s employment on
January 6, 2022, despite the absence of any hardship in keeping the position
open, and in retaliation against Plaintiff due to her taking disability and
request for reasonable accommodations by way of taking medical leave.
Furthermore, Plaintiff
claims MHI failed to engage in a good faith interactive process and failed to
provide reasonable accommodations by failing to offer or give Plaintiff her position
back, failing to offer or provide Plaintiff with any comparable or equivalent positions,
and failing to provide Plaintiff preferential consideration for other vacant comparable
positions.
Last, at the time of
Plaintiff’s termination, MHI failed to provide all wages due, including her
unused vacation and PTO hours.
B. Motion Before the
Court
On March 1, 2024, MHI
filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the FAC’s seven claims.
On May 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition to MHI’s motion.
On May 10, 2024, MHI
filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
MHI’s motion is now
before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication: GRANTED in part; DENIED in part.
A.
Legal Standard
A
motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact for trial or that the
moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (c).) A party may also seek summary adjudication of select causes
of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which
may be made by a standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary
judgment and proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary
judgment, but which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action,
affirmative defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t).) The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on
summary judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather
than proof, since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for
a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this burden,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.) “[I]n
ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal v. El
Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
B.
Analysis
1. FAC, First Cause of Action, Discrimination
on the Basis of Medical Condition and/or Disability in Violation of FEHA: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
California courts apply the
burden-shifting formula set forth in McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green
(1973) 411 U.S. 792, 802, under which a plaintiff must first establish a prima
facie case of discrimination by showing: (1) that he or she was a member of a
protected class, (2) that he or she was qualified for and performing
competently in the position she held, (3) that he or she suffered an adverse
employment action, and (4) conduct by the employer suggesting that it is more
likely than not that the adverse employment action was due to a discriminatory
motive. (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) It
is sufficient to show that one of the employer’s motives was to discriminate,
even if the employer had other lawful motives in causing the adverse employment
action. (University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center v. Nassar
(2013) 570 U.S. 338, 343.) If the plaintiff establishes this prima facie case,
the burden shifts to the employer to rebut the presumption of discrimination by
offering a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment
action. (Ibid.) If the employer meets this burden, the presumption of
discrimination disappears, and the burden shifts back to the plaintiff to
produce evidence that the employer’s reasons for the adverse employment action
were a mere pretext for discrimination. (Id. at p. 356.)
“On a defense motion for summary
judgment against a disparate treatment claim, the defendant must show either
that one of these elements cannot be established or that there were one or more
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons underlying the adverse employment
action.” (Jones v. Dept. of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 1367, 1379.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Garcia.
The first cause of action alleges
FEHA discrimination based on Plaintiff’s mental condition and disability (bipolar
disorder), MHI’s knowledge thereof, and disparate treatment (termination) based
on that condition, resulting in harm to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 6-10, 11-17.)
In its motion, MHI argues that
evidence attached to the moving papers shows a lack of triable issues as to the
first cause of action for two reasons: (1) evidence shows Plaintiff was unable
to perform her job duties at all relevant times; and (2) evidence shows MHI had
a legitimate, non-discriminatory reason to terminate Plaintiff’s employment,
i.e., Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s doctor failed to provide any kind of return
date for Plaintiff, MHI incurred temporary worker costs beyond budget based on Plaintiff’s
absence, Plaintiff’s absence impacted Plaintiff’s team at MHI, and MHI’s
corporate leadership decided in December 2021 to no longer authorize the use of
temporary workers business-wide, not solely as to Plaintiff’s position. (Mot.,
pp. 17-20, citing FAC, ¶¶ 11-17 [first cause of action] & Mot., Separate
Statement (Sep. St.), Undisputed Material Fact (UMF) Nos. 34-38, 41
[legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for termination], 46-50, 52-53 [unable
to perform job duties].)
No objections to this evidence
appear in the record.
The Court’s review of UMF Nos. 34-38
and 41 shows references to the declarations of Marlene Grosch (Supervisor
Utilization Management II / Manager, Healthcare Services at MHI) (UMF Nos.
34-36), Nicole Considine (Director, Employee Relations at MHI) (UMF Nos. 37-38),
and Sharon Medellin (counsel for MHI) (UMF Nos. 41).
The declaration of Marlene Grosch
is cited for the purpose of showing evidence that Plaintiff had engaged in a
pattern of extended leaves of absence without properly submitting medical
documents in support of her leave and that those leaves increased the burden on
Plaintiff’s team and left MHI unsure as to its staffing needs. (Mot., Grosch
Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.)
The declaration of Nicole Considine
is cited for the purpose of showing evidence that Plaintiff’s absence caused
MHI to go over budget on replacement worker costs, that hiring a replacement
worker for Plaintiff cost more than $107.60 per day, and that MHI’s corporate
leadership decided to phase out temporary workers companywide in December 2021.
(Mot., Considine Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.)
The declaration of Sharon Medellin
is cited for the purpose of showing Plaintiff’s termination letter and its
content, as confirmed by business records served by MHI on Plaintiff’s counsel.
(Mot., Medellin Decl., ¶ 24, Ex. 22.)
The Court concludes that for
summary judgment/adjudication purposes, this evidence carries MHI’s burden of showing
a lack of triable issues as to a legitimate, non-pretextual reason for
Plaintiff’s termination: MHI exceeding its replacement worker budget, with
Plaintiff on an undetermined leave of absence and MHI eliminating replacement
worker positions, thus necessitating that Plaintiff’s position be backfilled
prior to her return.
In turn, the Court’s review of UMF
Nos. 46-50 and 52-53 show references to doctor’s notes from Plaintiff’s doctor
indicating that she was “unable to work” or “unable to perform her job duties”
between August 25, 2021, to January 20, 2022. The evidence also refers to
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony where she testified to never correcting her
doctor’s assessment to MHI or Matrix (the leave request system), to not being
sure why she did not do so, and to the fact that her doctor never identified
any modifications that would allow Plaintiff to perform her job duties prior to
her return date in January 2022.
A review of the UMF Nos. 46-50
evidence confirms the attachment of the four referenced doctor’s notes or
certifications detailing Plaintiff’s inability to work or perform her job
duties, with no qualifications to those statements indicating a partial ability
to perform job duties. (Mot., Medellin Decl., Exs. 3 [8/26/21 note], 18
[12/21/21 note], 23 [10/16/21 certification form], 24 [12/21/21 certification
form].)
 A review of the UMF Nos. 51-52 evidence shows Plaintiff
testified that she did not inform MHI or Matrix that her doctor’s notes were
incorrect as to her ability to work, that Plaintiff does not know why she did
not correct this misunderstanding, and that none of her doctor’s notes
indicated she was able to return to work with modifications. (Mot., Medellin
Decl., Ex. 14, 70:2-13 [never informed MHI of disagreement with doctor’s
assessment; did not raise disagreement with doctor either; not sure why did not
raise disagreement], 144:4-14 [doctor did not identify modifications that would
have allowed Plaintiff to perform job, and Plaintiff recalls no conversations
with doctor regarding this issue].)
The Court concludes that for
summary judgment/adjudication purposes, this evidence shows a prima facie lack
of triable issues regarding the second element of this claim: Plaintiff’s (in)ability
to perform the job.
Either of these grounds carries
MHI’s burden.
The burden thus shifts to
Plaintiff.
In response to UMF Nos. 34-38 and
41 re: the alleged legitimate, non-pretextual reason for terminating
Plaintiff’s employment—high replacement worker cost to employer and staffing
needs—Plaintiff cites various pieces of evidence to show that Shawn Bastian—the
replacement worker hired to perform Plaintiff’s job during her absence in late
2021—rarely ever worked overtime, completed his job on time, had time to help
other departments, and was paid $22 per hour, only a few dollars more than
Plaintiff, who was paid $19.55 per hour. The evidence also represents MHI as a
company earning net income of $1.8 million per year, such that the difference
between Plaintiff’s wages and Mr. Bastian’s pay only amounted to $19.60 per day,
a negligible difference. (Opp’n, Sep. St., Responses to UMF Nos. 34.)
The Court’s review of this evidence
confirms the proposition for which it stands. (Opp’n, Comp. of Evid., Ex. 9,
Responses to FROGs, Nos. 201.5, 201.6(a), (c) [Shawn Bastian performed duties]
& Ex. 11, Responses to SROGs, Nos. Nos. 34, 37, 40, 43, 46, 49, at 88-95
[same] & Ex. 12, Responses to RFAs, No. 1 at 104, 142 & Ex. 17, Bastian
Depo. 43:9-13, 56:3-16, 70:14-71:12, 73:14-19; at pp. 327-331 [testimony as to
Bastian’s duties and work conditions, including hourly wage of $22 per hour];
Mot., Considine Decl., ¶ 6 [Plaintiff’s hourly wage; hourly wage for
replacement allegedly $33 per hour].)
No objections were raised to this
evidence.
The Court determines that this
evidence shows triable issues as to pretext. This is because the difference
between what Shawn Bastian testified that he was paid per hour ($22) and
Plaintiff’s wage ($19.55 per hour) is not a substantial amount, and Shawn
Bastian has testified to having limited duties such that his regular hours did
not include regular overtime.
In response to UMF Nos. 46-50 and
52-53, Plaintiff cites to her own deposition testimony to highlight the fact
that she testified that she was able to work the essential functions of her job
during the time that she was on extended leave in late 2021. (See, e.g., Opp’n,
Sep. St., Response to UMF No. 46, citing Opp’n, Comp. Evid., Garcia Depo.,
63:19-64:9; 71:21-72:7; 132:6-15, at pp. 237, 241-242, 247.)
The Court determines that this
evidence shows triable issues as to ability to perform the essential job
functions. Plaintiff’s own deposition testimony explains the state of mind
grounds that Plaintiff has for believing she was capable of performing her duties.
Though the reply argues that this is self-serving evidence concocted after the
fact to create a triable issue, the Court disagrees. Instead, the parties have
different pieces of evidence that may show that Plaintiff has acted
inconsistently as to her ability to perform her job functions, e.g., taking
leave based on the doctor’s notes but failing to inform her employer or doctor
that the notes were wrong in stating she could not wholesale perform her job
functions (no restrictions in any note). Such evidence can be used for
impeachment purposes at trial. But the Court does not weigh the evidence here, instead
simply noting evidence exists to support both sides. (Carlsen v. Koivumaki
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 885 [court may not weigh the admitted summary
judgment evidence as though sitting as a trier of fact but must determine what
any evidence or inference could show or imply to a reasonable trier of fact].)
The Court similarly determines that any testimony from Plaintiff to the effect
that she remained on leave simply because she was afraid of getting fired is
impeachment evidence going to triable issues, not evidence show a lack of
triable issues for the purposes of this motion.
Because Plaintiff carries her
burden on the first cause of action, summary judgment is DENIED and summary
adjudication of the first cause of action is also DENIED.
2. FAC, Second
Cause of Action, Retaliation for Complaining of Discrimination on the Basis of
Medical Condition and/or Disability in Violation of FEHA: 
a. Relevant
Law
“[I]n order to establish a prima
facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 [internal citations omitted].) “Once an employee
establishes a prima facie case, the employer is required to offer a legitimate,
nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action. If the employer
produces a legitimate reason for the adverse employment action, the presumption
of retaliation ‘“‘drops out of the picture,’” and the burden shifts back to the
employee to prove intentional retaliation.” (Ibid.) “The protected
activity element may be established by evidence that the plaintiff threatened
to file a discrimination charge, by a showing that the plaintiff mistakenly,
but reasonably and sincerely believed he was opposing discrimination, or by
evidence an employer believed the plaintiff was a potential witness in another
employee’s FEHA action.” (Rope v. Auto-Chlor System of Washington, Inc.
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 635, 652.) “A plaintiff … need only prove that a
retaliatory animus was at least a substantial or motivating factor in the
adverse employment decision” to prevail on her claim. (George v. California
Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1492.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Garcia.
The second cause of action alleges
FEHA retaliation based on Plaintiff Garcia taken medical leave for a mental
condition and disability, as a result of which she was ultimately terminated
from her employment. (FAC, ¶¶ 6-17, 18-24.)
In its motion, MHI argues that the
second cause of action fails on summary judgment or adjudication for two
reasons. MHI first contends that there is no evidence for a causal link between
Plaintiff’s termination and her need for leave, particularly where MHI has many
times before granted leave in favor of Plaintiff, and where MHI worked with
Plaintiff to ensure that Plaintiff was informed of the documents that she
needed to submit in relation to the requested leave. Second, MHI contends that
even if there is a causal link between some protected activity and termination,
there was a legitimate, non-pretextual reason for termination, as discussed in
relation to the first cause of action.
The Court finds that the latter
argument—legitimate, non-pretextual reason for termination—fails on summary
adjudication because both parties carried their burden on this issue, as
discussed above in relation to the first cause of action. 
The Court also relies on the first
cause of action discussion above to determine that Plaintiff has shown evidence
to support a triable issue of a causal link between her medical condition/disability/leave
requests and her termination.
Summary adjudication of the FAC’s
second cause of action is thus DENIED.
3. FAC, Third
Cause of Action, Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation
of FEHA: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Government Code section 12940(k)
provides that it is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, labor
organization, employment agency, apprenticeship training program, or any
training program leading to employment, to fail to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov. Code,
§ 12940, subd. (k).) To establish this claim, a plaintiff must establish the
defendant’s legal duty of care, breach of duty, legal causation, and damages to
the plaintiff. (See Trujillo v. North County Transit District (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 280, 286-287.)
b. Court’s
Determination
Because the first and second causes
of action have survived summary judgment and adjudication, the Court DENIES
relief as to the FAC’s derivative third cause of action.
4. FAC, Fourth
Cause of Action, Failure to Accommodate: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (m) makes it unlawful for “an employer or other [covered] entity …
to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known physical or mental
disability of an applicant or employee.” A claim for failure to accommodate
requires a showing that (1) plaintiff had a disability, (2) the employer was
aware of the alleged disability, and (3) failed to make a reasonable
accommodation for plaintiff. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m).) Generally, “[t]he
employee bears the burden of giving the employer notice of the disability.
[Citation.]” (Raine v. City of Burbank (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1215,
1222.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Garcia.
The FAC’s third cause of action
alleges a failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s need for medical leave based on
bipolar disorder based on a failure to keep Plaintiff’s position for her
return, failing to offer Plaintiff and equivalent or comparable position, and
failure to provide preferential consideration for vacant positions. (FAC, ¶¶
6-10, 33-38.)
In its motion, MHI argues that the
fourth cause of action fails on summary adjudication because evidence shows a
lack of triable issues as to the facts that: (1) Plaintiff’s medical
documentation established she could not perform the essential functions of her
job; (2) MHI accommodated Plaintiff’s requests for leaves of absence, using the
leave system (Matrix) to request documents supporting leave from Plaintiff
prior to denying leave based on lack of proper documentation; and (3) further
accommodation was not possible based on hardship to MHI’s business.
The Court has discussed the first
and third of these points in relation to the first cause of action—triable
issues as to ability to perform job functions and hardship to business—and
found that relief is not merited as to those points. Conflicting evidence as to
whether Plaintiff recognized her own responsibility in her employment
termination does not eliminate the fact that Plaintiff has advanced evidence to
show a prima facie case for these issues. Instead, conflicting evidence goes to
impeachment or other purposes that involve weighing evidence, which is not the
purpose of this motion.
As to point (2)—MHI accommodated
the leave requests by having Plaintiff submit documents using Matrix only for
Plaintiff to file deficient documentation, resulting in denial of leave, and
ultimately, her termination—the Court finds that MHI carries its burden.
MHI presents undisputed evidence
showing that Plaintiff has admitted that MHI accommodated her by placing her on
ADA leave from August 25, 2021, to November 16, 2021. (Mot., p. 23, citing
Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 14; see Opp’n, Sep. St., Response to UMF No. 14
[undisputed].) MHI also presents evidence to show that in response to Plaintiff
requesting further leave through December 21, 2021, and then through January
20, 2022, MHI’s leave system Matrix requested further information from
Plaintiff, which Plaintiff did not submit in due time, resulting in a denial of
the leave request, and her termination as a result of backfilling, where
Plaintiff was informed of the possibility that her position could be backfilled
around December 29, 2021. (Mot., pp. 23-24, citing Mot., Sep. St., UMF Nos.
25-28, 39.)
The Court finds that this evidence
carries MHI’s burden as to this claim. If MHI requested that Plaintiff properly
support her late-2021 leave requests, and if Plaintiff failed to properly
submit documents evidencing the need for a medical leave, then MHI engaged in a
good faith effort to accommodate Plaintiff’s requests for leave at the end of
2021.
The Court next determines Plaintiff
carries her responsive burden.
In opposition, Plaintiff presents
evidence to show that even if she failed to submit the correct documentation,
MHI had decided to terminate Plaintiff’s employment prior to backfilling her
position, without consideration of further documentation. (Opp’n, Sep. St.,
Additional Material Fact (AMF) No. 49, citing Julie Moore email to decision
maker Nicole Considine [“We cannot accommodate”; “PLEASE let us know when we
can replace her”].) Plaintiff also cites internal MHI emails to show that MHI
did not comply with its policy of informing an employee of the need to return
to work by a certain date lest the employee’s position be backfilled. And here it
is undisputed that MHI’s applicable agent (Nicole Considine, Director, Employee
Relations, MHI) did not notify Plaintiff that she had to specifically return to
work by December 29, 2021, or else her position would be backfilled. (Reply,
Sep. St., Response to AMF No. 52 [“Undisputed, immaterial. …”].)
The Court determines that this
evidence shows triable issues as to failure to accommodate the leave requests
in late 2021 based on the above evidence raising triable issues as to whether
MHI’s December 2021 efforts to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff were merely
superficial and the decision already had been made to terminate Plaintiff’s
employment.
The Court rejects the reply
argument that Julie Moore was not the decision maker, thus making the Moore-Considine
email referenced above in essence irrelevant. (Reply, Sep. St., Response to AMF
No. 49.) Considine appears to have been one of the decisionmakers here. None of
the above evidence was objected to, with MHI merely arguing for a different
interpretation than Plaintiff. Under these circumstances, we have MHI staff
(including Considine) discussing the need to get rid off Plaintiff, with
Considine two days later failing to inform Plaintiff of Plaintiff’s need to
return to work by December 29, 2024, which in part results in Plaintiff’s
position being backfilled. Such evidence and chain of inference show a prima
facie case for failure to accommodate.
Summary adjudication of the FAC’s
fourth cause of action is thus DENIED.
5. FAC, Fifth
Cause of Action, Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (n) requires employers to engage in a good faith interactive
process to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any, “in response
to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee … with a known
physical or mental disability ….” (Raine v. City of Burbank, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 1222.) A claim for failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process must allege facts to support a finding that (1) plaintiff
suffered from a disability, (2) the employer was aware of the alleged
disabilities, and (3) the employer failed to engage in a good faith process to
identify reasonable accommodations for the Plaintiffs. (See Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (n).) Generally, “[t]he employee bears the burden of giving the employer
notice of the disability. [Citation.]” (Raine v. City of Burbank, supra,
at p. 1222.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court adopts its discussion in
relation to the fourth cause of action to determine that because triable issues
remain as to whether MHI properly followed its procedures for backfilling
Plaintiff’s position—e.g., failing to inform Plaintiff of her exact return
date—triable issues remain as to whether MHI properly engaged in the
interactive process regarding Plaintiffs’ late-2021 requests for medical leave
through January 2022.
Summary adjudication of the FAC’s
fifth cause of action is thus DENIED.
6. FAC, Sixth
Cause of Action, Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy: DENIED.
a. Relevant
Law
“The elements of a claim for
wrongful discharge in violation of public policy are (1) an employer-employee
relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and
(4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm.” (Yau v. Allen (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 144, 154.)
b. Court’s
Determination
The Court adopts its discussion of
the first and second causes of action to determine that because triable issues
remain as to whether Plaintiff’s termination was a violation of the FEHA based
on discrimination and retaliation, triable issues remain as to the FAC’s
wrongful termination claim.
7. FAC, Seventh
Cause of Action, Violation of California Labor Code Section 203 (Waiting Time
Penalties): GRANTED.
a. Relevant
Law
California Labor Code section 203
levies a waiting time penalty on employers who willfully withhold the final
paychecks from employees who are terminated or quit. The penalty is equal to
the employee’s daily wage for each day the final paycheck goes unpaid, up to 30
days.
b. Court’s
Determination
The FAC’s seventh case of action
alleges that as of the date the FAC was filed, Plaintiff had not been paid all
wages due to her at the time of termination. (FAC, ¶¶ 51-55.)
The FAC alleges a termination date
of February 6, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 8.)
In its motion, MHI argues that no
triable issues remain as to this claim where evidence shows that Plaintiff has
testified that she received all wages owed to her as of January 4, 2022. (Mot.,
p. 27, citing Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 44.)
A review of the cited evidence
confirms MHI’s position. (Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 44, citing Mot., Medellin
Decl., Ex. 5, Response to RFAs Nos. 15-16.)
Indeed, this evidence is undisputed
by Plaintiff. (Opp’n, Sep. St., Response to UMF No. 44.)
The UMF even clarifies that
Plaintiff has acknowledged that her owed wages were paid by MHI but has
nevertheless failed to dismiss this claim despite having agreed to do so.
(Mot., Sep. St., UMF No. 44; Opp’n, Sep. St., Response to UMF No. 44
[undisputed].)
The above evidence thus carries
MHI’s burden on the FAC’s seventh cause of action and shows Plaintiff cannot
carry her responsive burden.
Summary of the FAC’s seventh cause
of action is thus GRANTED. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Molina Healthcare, Inc.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part as follows:
(1) DENIED as to the First Amended
Complaint’s first to sixth causes of action; and
(2) GRANTED as to the First Amended
Complaint’s seventh cause of action.