  Case Number:  23CHCV02500    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  11/7/24




Case
  Name: Maria De La Cruz, Luis Enrique Hernandez Correa, and Ramiro
  Hernandez v. Salomon Melchor, and Does 1 through 50
Case
  No. 23CHCV02500




 



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

NOVEMBER 7, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV02500

 
Motion
filed: 6/4/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Salomon Melchor  
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: Defective.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court to compel Plaintiff Luis Enrique Hernandez Correa to
respond to Defendant Salomon Melchor’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, and to
impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Luis Enrique Hernandez Correa and
his counsel in the amount of $1,800.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED. The request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged personal injuries and
damages Plaintiffs sustained as a result of an automotive collision on or about
August 22, 2021.
 
On August 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Maria De La Cruz (“Cruz”),
Luis Enrique Hernandez Correa (“Correa”), and Ramiro Hernandez (“Hernandez”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant Salomon Melchor (“Defendant” or “Melchor”), and Does 1
through 50, alleging a single cause of action for Negligence/Negligence Per Se.
Subsequently, Melchor filed an Answer to the Complaint on January 19, 2024.
 
On June
4, 2024, Defendant Melchor filed the instant Motion to Compel Responses to Requests
for Admission, Set One (the “Motion”).
 
No Opposition or Reply papers
have been received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Any party may
obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action admit
the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of
fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.010.)¿ “Within 30 days after service of requests for
admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original
of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on
all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd.
(a).)
 
If a party to
whom request for admissions is served fails to provide a timely response, the
party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based
on privilege or the work product doctrine. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(a).) The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subd. (b).) The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the
request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿
 
A.   
Notice of
the Motion Is Defective.
 
“A notice of
motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought
and the grounds for issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules of Court rule
3.1110(a).)
 
The Court finds that the Notice
of the Motion (“Notice”) is defective. 
 
First, the Notice states that
“[t]he motion is made pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 2033.290[.]”
(Notice, at p. 2.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.290 provides, in pertinent part, “On receipt of a response to
requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order
compelling a further response[.]” 
 
The Court emphasizes that a motion to compel further
responses under Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290 applies when (1) an
answer is evasive or incomplete, or (2) an objection is without merit or too
general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a).) This applicability is distinct from a circumstance where,
as here, no responses were received at all. (See Abella Decl. ¶ 7.) Therefore, the
Notice cites an authority that is inapplicable in this circumstance. 
 
Second, the Notice states its request as that “[Defendant]
will and hereby move the court for an order compelling Plaintiff … to serve
full and complete verified answers, without objections, to Requests for
Admission, Set One[.]” (Notice, at p. 2.)
 
This statement in the Notice
contradicts the substantive request in the Motion, which asserts that “[i]f no
responses are served prior to the hearing on this motion, the court has no
discretion but to grant this motion and deem the truth of the matters.”
(Mot. at p. 4.) (Underlines added.)
 
The Court notes that, while in
the Motion, Defendant correctly cites the applicable Code of Civil Procedure
sections and requests an order that the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, he incorrectly states the inapplicable authority
and requests in the Notice, thereby rendering the Notice defective.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES without prejudice the
Motion.
 
B.    
Monetary
Sanctions Are Inapplicable.
 
“It is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).) (Underlines added.)
 
As the Court
has denied the Motion on the ground of defective notice, it finds the monetary
sanctions inapplicable in this circumstance.
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES without prejudice Defendant’s request
for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant Salomon Melchor’s Motion to Compel Responses
to Requests for Admission, Set One, is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Defendant Salomon Melchor’s
Request
for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 