  Case Number:  24STCP01197    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  26 Diya Finance, LLC v. Malbros Ready Mix Concrete, LLC TENTATIVE RULING:Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED.  ANALYSIS: Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed the instant Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent Malbros Ready Mix Concrete, LLC (“Respondent”) on April 15, 2024. The Petition initially came for hearing on September 12, 2024 and was continued to provide for proper notice to Respondent. (Minute Order, 09/12/24.) Petitioner filed a proof of service by mail on December 2, 2024. No response to the Petition has been filed to date. DiscussionPetitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded against their property by Respondent released. Under Civil Code section 8484 the petition for release order must be verified by the petitioner and allege the following:(a) The date of recordation of the claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the petition.(b) The county in which the claim of lien is recorded.(c) The book and page or series number of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.(d) The legal description of the property subject to the claim of lien.(e) Whether an extension of credit has been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.(f) That the owner has given the claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.(g) Whether an action to enforce the lien is pending.(h) Whether the owner of the property or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to enforce the lien.(Civil Code, § 8484.) The Petition contains all the required information. The Court previously noted that service of the Petition did not comply with Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b) regarding the manner of service, nor with the requirements for service on a corporation under Code of Civil Procedure section 416.10. (Minute Order, 09/12/24.) The Court ordered Petitioner to file a code-compliant proof of service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing. (Minute Order, 11/25/24.) Petitioner filed a new proof of service of the Petition and notice of the new hearing date on December 2, 2024, showing service on that date by certified mail with return receipt requested and in compliance with Corporations Code section 418.10. (Proof of Service, filed 12/02/24.)ConclusionTherefore, Petitioner Diya Finance, LLC’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. Moving party to give notice.