  Case Number:  23PSCV02690    Hearing Date:   July 22, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Neptune
Shipping Limited’s Motion for Request for Judicial Notice is summarily DENIED.
Background   
Plaintiff Home Accent Pillows,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff is a purveyor of pillows and
fabrics for home/residential use and is the consignee of certain products
ordered from China. On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff received notice of arrival
of a shipment of partially manufactured products, with transportation processed
by Neptune Shipping Limited (“Neptune”). Neptune first placed the shipment with
a more expensive boat but subsequently substituted ships while using the more
expensive price to bill Plaintiff. Plaintiff confronted Neptune about this overcharge.
Neptune withheld the products from Plaintiff until Plaintiff paid the inflated
price.
On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against Neptune and
Does 1-5 for:
1.                 
Fraud and Constructive Fraud
2.                 
Extortion
3.                 
Conversion
4.                 
Negligent Misrepresentation
5.                 
Unjust Enrichment 
6.                 
Unfair Business Practices 
A Case Management Conference is
set for September 3, 2024.
Legal Standard
Under the Evidence Code:
Judicial notice may be taken of the
following matters to the extent that they are not embraced within Section 451:
. . .
(c)
       Official acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of
the United States.
(d)
      Records of 
(1)
      any court of this state or 
(2)
      any court of record of the United
States or of any state of the United States. . .
(h)       Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.

 
(Evid.
Code § 452).
“The trial court shall take judicial notice of any matter
specified in Section 452 if a party requests it and [] [g]ives each adverse
party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or otherwise, to
enable such adverse party to prepare to meet the request; and []
[f]urnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial
notice of the matter.” (Evid. Code § 453). “Any request for judicial notice
must be made in a separate document listing the
specific items for which notice is requested and must comply with rule
3.1306(c).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(l).)
“A party requesting judicial notice of material under
Evidence Code sections 452 or 453 must provide the court and each party with a
copy of the material. If the material is part of a file in the court in which
the matter is being heard, the party must: (1) Specify in writing the part
of the court file sought to be judicially noticed; and (2) Either make
arrangements with the clerk to have the file in the courtroom at the time of
the hearing or confirm with the clerk that the file is electronically accessible
to the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1306(c).)
Discussion
Neptune moves the court, pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 450 et
seq. and California Rules of Court rules 3.1113(l) and 3.1306(c), to take
judicial notice of certain documents.
Neptune’s motion is summarily denied. The court is unaware
of any legal basis for filing a standalone “Motion for Request for Judicial Notice.”