 Case Number:  21STCV24597    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set Two)
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set Two)
Tentative
The motions are granted in part and denied in part.
The requests for sanctions are denied.
Background
On July 2, 2021, Plaintiff Bradley Dodds (“Plaintiff”) filed
the complaint in this action against County of Los Angeles (“County”), Santiago
Javier Vazquez, and Does 1 through 10, asserting a cause of action for motor
vehicle negligence arising out of an accident on Angeles Crest Highway (SR-2)
on January 5, 2021.  County filed an
answer to the complaint on July 29, 2021.
There is some history regarding the discovery requests at
issue, which the Court will not repeat. 
(See Minute Order dated January 26, 2024, at pp. 5-6.)  As is relevant here, Plaintiff responded to
County’s Special Interrogatories (Set Two) and Requests for Production (Set
Two) on April 15, 2024.  (Mallory Decls.,
¶¶ 6 & 7 & Exhs. C.)  County contends
that the responses are not code compliant and sent meet and confer
correspondence to Plaintiff on April 22. 
(Id., ¶¶ 7 & 8 & Exhs. D.)  Plaintiff did not further respond.  (Id., ¶¶ 8 & 9.) 
County filed these two motions to compel further responses on
May 16, 2024.  Although Plaintiff has
opposed other discovery motions filed by County, the Court sees no opposition
to these two motions in the file.
The Court conducted an Informal Discovery Conference on May
28, but the issues were not resolved.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
Special Interrogatories
County moves to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set Two) Nos. 21-34.
Nos. 21, 22, 23, 27, and 29
These interrogatories ask about the speed limit on Angeles
Crest Highway, the highest speed at which Plaintiff was traveling on Angeles
Crest Highway on the date of the accident, and the speed at which Plaintiff was
traveling when he first say the vehicle driven by Mr. Vazquez and at the time
of the collision.
In response, Plaintiff states a number of objections, including
that the interrogatories call for expert opinion testimony, call for work
product, invade Plaintiff’s right to privacy, require Plaintiff to summarize
medical records, are unduly burdensome, call for a legal conclusion, and are
vague and ambiguous.  The Court OVERRULES
all of Plaintiff’s objections.  
Without waiving the objections, Plaintiff answers, “Yes.”  That is not responsive to these
interrogatories.
The motion to compel further responses to these
interrogatories is GRANTED.
Nos. 24, 30, 32, 33, and 34
These interrogatories ask Plaintiff a series of “yes or no”
questions – whether Plaintiff saw the other vehicle before the collision,
whether Plaintiff intended to “overtake” the vehicle, whether Plaintiff crossed
the double yellow line in the center of the highway, whether there was a double
yellow line in the center of the highway at the location of the accident, and
whether Plaintiff intended to pass the vehicle.
In response, Plaintiff states a number of objections, including
that the interrogatories call for expert opinion testimony, call for work
product, invade Plaintiff’s right to privacy, require Plaintiff to summarize
medical records, are unduly burdensome, call for a legal conclusion, and are
vague and ambiguous.  The Court OVERRULES
and STRIKES all of Plaintiff’s objections. 

Without waiving the (now stricken) objections, Plaintiff
answers, “Yes.”  That is responsive to
these interrogatories.
The motion to compel further responses to these
interrogatories is DENIED.
Nos. 25, 26, and 28
These interrogatories ask Plaintiff how long before the
collision he saw the other vehicle, how far Plaintiff was from the other
vehicle when he first observed it, and how much time transpired between when he
first observed the other vehicle and the collision.
In response, Plaintiff states a number of objections, including
that the interrogatories call for expert opinion testimony, call for work
product, invade Plaintiff’s right to privacy, require Plaintiff to summarize
medical records, are unduly burdensome, call for a legal conclusion, and are
vague and ambiguous.  The Court OVERRULES
all of Plaintiff’s objections.  
Subject to the objections, Plaintiff answers, “Yes.”  That is not responsive to these
interrogatories.
The motion to compel further responses to these
interrogatories is GRANTED.
No. 31
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff how he intended to pass the
other vehicle.  
In response, Plaintiff states a number of objections, including
that the interrogatories call for expert opinion testimony, call for work
product, invade Plaintiff’s right to privacy, require Plaintiff to summarize
medical records, are unduly burdensome, call for a legal conclusion, and are
vague and ambiguous.  The Court OVERRULES
all of Plaintiff’s objections.  
Subject to the objections, Plaintiff answers, “Yes.”  That is not responsive to these
interrogatories.
The motion to compel further responses to these
interrogatories is GRANTED.
Requests for Production
County moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Production (Set Two) Nos. 30-40.
In these requests, County asks for document relating to
Plaintiff’s claim for lost earnings and lost earning capacity; media of
Plaintiff’s motorcycle, Plaintiff riding a motorcycle, Plaintiff serving as a motorcycle
instructor, and the protective equipment worn by Plaintiff at the time of the
accident; Plaintiff’s certifications as a motorcycle instructor or rider; videos,
photographs, or other media used for auditions as an actor after the accident; and
reports and billings from health care providers who treated Plaintiff for injuries
he claims he sustained in the accident.
In response, Plaintiff states a number of objections, including
that the requests call for expert opinion testimony, call for work product, invade
Plaintiff’s right to privacy, require Plaintiff to summarize medical records, are
unduly burdensome, call for a legal conclusion, and are vague and ambiguous.  The Court OVERRULES all of Plaintiff’s
objections.  
Without waiving the objections, Plaintiff answers, “Yes.”  
That is not responsive. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.210, subd. (a), 2031.220 & 2031.230.)
County has shown good cause for the requested discovery.
The motion to compel further responses to these requests for
production is GRANTED.
Sanctions
County seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2023.010,
2023.030, 2030.290, and 2030.300, and 2031.300.
Section 2023.010 defines “misuses of the discovery process” but
does not contain an authorization for the imposition of sanctions.
Section 2023.030 provides for sanctions for the misuse of the
discovery process “to the extent authorized by any chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title [the Civil
Discovery Act].”  In other words, section
2023.030 does not contain an independent authorization or sanctions but
provides for the type of sanctions that may be imposed when authorized
elsewhere in the Civil Discovery Act. 
Sections 2030.290, 2030.300, and 2031.300 authorize sanctions
against a party, person, or attorney “who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel.”  Here, Plaintiff has
not opposed the motion, and therefore cannot be sanctioned under these
statutory provisions.  
The Court notes that other provisions of the Civil Discovery
Act provide for sanctions even in the absence of an unsuccessful motion or
opposition.  (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2025.450, subd. (g)(1) & 2033.280, subd. (c).)  For the motions to compel at issue here,
however, the Legislature has not provided for sanctions in the absence of an
unsuccessful motion or opposition.
Accordingly, County’s requests for sanctions are denied.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part County’s motion to
compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
Two).
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve further, code complaint,
verified, written responses, without objection, to Special Interrogatories Nos.
21-23, 25-29, and 31, within 15 days of notice.
The Court otherwise DENIES the motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Two)
The Court GRANTS County’s motion to compel Plaintiff to
provide further responses to Requests for Production (Set Two).
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve further, code complaint,
verified, written responses, without objection, to Requests for Production Nos.
30-40, within 15 days of notice.
The Court DENIES County’s requests for sanctions.
