 Case Number:  23STCV25126    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint from Defendant Piken
Silverman E.L.A., LLC
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On October 16, 2023, Roberta Weiser (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Riken Silverman E.L.A., LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through
25 for premises liability arising out of trip and fall occurring on October 30,
2021. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Defendant filed an answer.
 
On February 27, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.  
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause
of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds.
(a) & (b).)  
Subject to the exceptions set forth by
statute, if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action against
the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the complaint, “such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
A permissive
cross-complaint, in contrast, is much broader. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated cause of action “against any of
the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).)  Alternatively, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert a “cause
of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not
such a person is already party to the action, if the cause of action asserted
in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2)
asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the
subject of the cause brought against him.” (Id., subd. (b).)  Cross-complaints for contribution or
indemnity against new parties fall within the definition of a permissive
cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party
must file a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the
answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court “after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may
be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  The “good faith”
standard must “be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive
cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of
action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the
party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a) &
(b).)  If a party fails to do so, and
then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant
leave “in the interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints against a person or
entity that is not already a party in the action are always permissive, rather
than compulsory. (Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2023], ¶ 6:524.) 
Discussion
Defendant contends that allowing the filing
of the proposed permissive cross-complaint is in the interests of justice as it
has learned in reviewing its lease agreement with Albertson’s that Albertson’s
was responsible for maintaining the parking lot. (Motion, 5:14-16; Sabongui
Decl., ¶ 4.)  The Court, of course,
expresses no views with regard to the merits of Defendant’s contention.
It is clear that the proposed cross-complaint
arises out of the same set of facts as Plaintiff’s complaint, as Defendant
merely states it is for express indemnity, implied equitable indemnity,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief, based on Defendant’s contention
that, under the lease, Albertson’s had a duty to maintain the premises at issue.  Defendant acted promptly and diligently, and
the Court notes that there will still likely be adequate time for a new party
to conduct discovery, as the trial date is on April 14, 2025.
The motion is granted.  Leave to file the proposed cross-complaint is
in the interests of justice.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for leave to file
its cross-complaint. 
 
The
Court ORDERS Defendant to file the proposed cross-complaint attached to the
moving papers within 10 days of the hearing and to serve the cross-defendant
promptly.
 
Moving
Party to give notice.