..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV00978
Plaintiff's Name: De Park Avenue 1100, LLC
Defendant's Name: Tavistock Restaurants, LLC
People-Names: None
Company-Names: Tavistock Restaurants, LLC, De Park Avenue 1100, LLC
Places: California, Delaware
Dates: January 26, 2023, January 25, 2023, March 19, 2024
Events: Demurrer, Request for Judicial Notice
Money: None
Intentions: To determine the sufficiency of the complaint and grant or deny leave to amend
Facts: Defendant's cancellation of its LLC registration, Plaintiff's claim for breach of lease
Disputes: Capacity to be sued, applicability of Delaware law, survival of claims
Acts: Cancellation of LLC registration, wind-up of affairs, filing of complaint
Agreements: Lease agreement, LLC operating agreement
Laws: California Corporations Code, Delaware LLC Act, Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Lewis v. Safeway, Inc., 290 Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco, Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc., Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist., Gressley v. Williams, Colaco v. Cavotec SA, Greb v. Diamond Internat. Corp.
Statutes: California Corporations Code section 17707.06, Delaware LLC Act section 18-203, Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: 
  - The Court takes judicial notice of the Certificate of Cancellation and the Delaware laws cited in Defendant's demurrer.
  - The Court sustains Defendant's demurrer, finding that Defendant lacks capacity to be sued due to its cancellation of LLC registration in Delaware.
  - The Court does not grant leave to amend, as Plaintiff has not identified any additional facts that could cure the deficiencies identified.
```
And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a demurrer filed by Tavistock Restaurants, LLC (Defendant) to the complaint filed by De Park Avenue 1100, LLC (Plaintiff) for breach of lease. Defendant argues that it lacks capacity to be sued due to its cancellation of its LLC registration in Delaware, while Plaintiff argues that Defendant's dissolution and wind-up may have been improper under Delaware law and that California's survival statutes apply. The judge has sustained the demurrer and denied leave to amend, finding that Defendant lacks capacity to be sued and that the Court lacks authority to nullify the Delaware cancellation.
