  Case Number:  21SMCV01850    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV01850




MOTION


Motion to Fix Prejudgment Interest




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Innerspin Marketing, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Consequent Capital Management



 
MOTION
 
On January 30, 2024, following a jury trial, the Court entered
judgment in favor of Plaintiff Innerspin Marketing, LLC (“Plaintiff”) and
against Defendant Consequent Capital Management, LLC (“Defendant”) in “the sum
of $448,000.00, with prejudgment interest, costs and attorneys’ fees in amounts
to be determined through post-trial proceedings.”  (January 30, 2024 Judgment.)  
 
Plaintiff now moves to fix the amount of prejudgment interest to be
awarded.  Defendant opposes the motion and
Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Plaintiff seeks $194,145.71 in
prejudgment interest, representing a 10% annual interest rate on the
outstanding balances of twenty-six invoices that were transmitted between July
2017 and March 2021, as outlined in a chart on page 6 of the Motion.  
 
            Defendant argues (1) Plaintiff
cannot recover any prejudgment interest, because the issue was not presented to
the jury; (2) if prejudgment interest is allowed, the interest rate should be
capped at 7%, as Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed with prejudice the breach of
contract claim, and prevailed at trial only as to the common counts; and (3) the
start dates Plaintiff used in the chart are premature.
 
            Entitlement to Prejudgment
Interest Generally
 
            Civil Code section 3288 provides:  “In an action for the breach of an obligation
not arising from contract, and in every case of oppression, fraud, or malice,
interest may be given, in the discretion of the jury.”  
 
In support of Defendant’s assertion that the issue of prejudgment
interest was waived by Plaintiff’s failure to present it to the jury, Defendant
cites only to CMI Integrated Techs., Inc. v. Xzeres Corp. (C.D. Cal.
Apr. 29, 2016) No. CV15805RGKFFMX, 2016 WL 7058091, at *3), an unpublished
nonbinding federal district court case, for the proposition that only a jury,
and not the Court can award prejudgment interest.
 
            But California courts have held that
where the amount of loss and the date from which interest should be computed
are capable of definite ascertainment, a court does not abuse its discretion in
awarding prejudgment interest pursuant to Civil Code section 3288.  (See e.g., Peskin v. Phinney (1960)
182 Cal.App.2d 632, 636.)  As discussed
below, the amount of loss was determined by the jury and the dates from which
interest should be computed are capable of definite ascertainment.  
 
            Moreover, the judgment itself
provides that Plaintiff may recover prejudgment interest.  Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to
prejudgment interest.
 
            Prejudgment Interest Rate
 
            Plaintiff seeks an interest rate of
10%, pursuant to Civil Code section 3289, subdivision (b), which provides, “If
a contract entered into after January 1, 1986, does not stipulate a legal rate
of interest, the obligation shall bear interest at a rate of 10 percent per
annum after a breach.”       
 
The California Constitution provides, “The rate of interest upon the
loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or things in action, or on accounts
after demand, shall be 7 percent per annum[…]” 
(Cal. Const. art. XV, § 1.)
 
Defendant argues that the 10% interest rate applicable to breach of
contract does not apply, because Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the breach of
contract claim and prevailed at trial only as to their common counts, and
therefore the default 7% interest rate applies.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant. 
The proper applicable interest rate is 7%, not 10%.
 
Dates Interest Began
 
Plaintiff calculated interest on the outstanding balance of each
invoice from the date of each invoice to the date of the judgment.  Defendant contends this is erroneous, because
a jury needs to determine when the amounts actually became due.  The Court disagrees.
 
Each invoice indicates that the amount payable is “Due Upon
Receipt.”  (See Carter Decl. ¶ 2 and
Exhibits thereto.)  Therefore, Plaintiff
appropriately calculated interest from the date of each invoice.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Because Plaintiff
calculated the requested interest using a 10% interest rate, as opposed to a 7%
interest rate, Plaintiff’s request to fix the prejudgment interest is denied
without prejudice.  Plaintiff may resubmit
a request in conformance with this order. 

 
            Plaintiff shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.  Further, Plaintiff is ordered to file an
amended proposed judgment in conformance with the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:  March 19, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 