 Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Melanie Kerr




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Compendium
     of Exhibits
Declaration
     of Joshua S. Dixon, Esq.

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Memorandum of Points and Authorities
     in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
Separate Statement of Disputed
     Material Facts 
Objections to Evidence

Declaration
     of Waukeen McCoy

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment
Evidentiary
     Objections

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Fifth Amended Complaint [“5AC”] ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff
suffered a stroke, causing central visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive
and behavioral issues.  (5AC ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon,
Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D. and Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc. (“Prokupek”);
Dr. Prokupek’s company, Defendant Millennium Medical Associates, Inc. (“Millennium”);
Dr. Prokupek’s employee Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist
Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. (“Soma”),
where the endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and operator of
Soma (“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Hershey-Weber”);
and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three causes of action: (1)
professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
On November 8, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant Kerr’s demurrer as
to the second and third causes of action without leave to amend.  (November 8, 2023 Minute Order.)  Defendant Kerr now moves for summary judgment
as to the first cause of action on the following issues:
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s complaint fails because Nurse Kerr did not
breach the applicable standard of care regarding Plaintiff Pericles Chamis; and
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s complaint fails because Nurse Kerr did not,
to a reasonable degree of medical probability, proximately cause or contribute to
Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Kerr replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff’s
Objections to Kerr’s evidence
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.      Overruled
2.      Overruled
3.      Overruled
4.      Overruled
5.      Overruled
6.      Overruled
 
            Kerr’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Kerr’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.      Overruled
2.      Overruled
3.      Overruled
4.      Overruled
5.      Overruled
6.      Overruled
7.      Overruled
8.      Overruled
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There
is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue
of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and
the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable
issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss
v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.      PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE 
 
“Civil Code section 1714, subdivision
(a) establishes the general duty of each person to exercise, in his or her
activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.  When applied to medical professionals, this
duty of care imposes a duty to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise.”  (Flores
v. Liu (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 278, 290 [cleaned up].)  To prevail on a claim for negligence against
a medical professional, a plaintiff must demonstrate that: (1) a medical professional
had a duty to use the skill, prudence and diligence that members of the profession
commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) an injury that resulted
from the breach of that duty; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
breach of that duty.  (Banerian v. O’Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d
604, 612.)  
 
“[T]he legal standard of care
required by doctors is the standard of practice required by their own profession.  The courts require only that physicians and surgeons
exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable degree of skill, knowledge,
and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical profession
under similar circumstances.  Thus,
liability is not found, and the label of malpractice is not placed upon a
physician's actions, unless some deviation by the physician from the standard
of care that his peers consider appropriate in the situation under review is
proven.” (Burgess v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1081 [cleaned up].) 
 
Expert testimony is generally
the only admissible and relevant evidence on whether a medical professional has
breached the standard of care.  (Landeros v. Flood (1976) 17 Cal.3d 399,
410 [“ ‘The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be
measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the
basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony (citations),
unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman’ ”].)  As the Court
of Appeal has held, in reversing summary judgments for medical professionals:  “The standard of care against which the acts
of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge
of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be
proved by their testimony.  California
courts have incorporated the expert evidence requirement into their standard
for summary judgment in medical malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, defendant is entitled to summary judgment
unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
601, 606-607 [cleaned up].)  Further, a
plaintiff “is entitled to all favorable inferences that may reasonably be
derived from” an expert’s declaration which must be liberally construed.  (See Fernandez v. Alexander (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 770, 782.)   
 
Kerr argues Plaintiff cannot
establish that Kerr breached the standard of care in her treatment and care of
Plaintiff or that Kerr proximately caused Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.  
 
a.      Defendant’s Evidence           
 
Kerr relies on the Declaration
of Julia Hughes, MHA, BSN, BS, RN, CNOR, CLNC (“Hughes”), who is a practicing
registered nurse since 1986 with extensive experience in outpatient surgery,
post-anesthesia care unit (“PACU”), medical-surgical, and hospital
settings.  (Hughes Decl. ¶ 3.)  Nurse Hughes reviewed the following in order
to craft her declaration and form her opinions: (1) Plaintiff’s Fifth Amended Complaint;
(2) Plaintiff’s medical records from Dale Prokupek, M.D.’s office and Soma
Surgery Center; (3) deposition testimony of Plaintiff, of Dale Prokupek, M.D.,
and Melanie Kerr, R.N. (Hughes Decl. ¶ 4.) 

 
Hughes states in pertinent
part, “Based on the foregoing facts as well as my background, education,
training, and experience, it is my opinion that the standard of care was met at
all times with respect to the nursing care and treatment that was provided to
Plaintiff Pericles Chamis by Defendant Melanie Kerr, R.N.”  (Hughes Decl. ¶ 45.)  Hughes also explains:
 
46. More specifically, the pre-operative
evaluations, pre-procedure checklist, documentation, nursing care and
treatment, the post-operative nursing care and treatment, postoperative
monitoring of vital signs and recovery progression, and all related services
rendered to Pericles Chamis by Melanie Kerr, R.N. were well within the standard
of care at all times. 
 
47. The nursing care and treatment provided to
Pericles Chamis in the intra-operative setting on November 4, 2020 was also
properly documented and performed within the scope of practice for the treating
nurse. 
 
48. Mr. Chamis was advised by other healthcare
providers as to when to discontinue his medications (including Xarelto) prior
to November 4, 2020. Nurse Kerr appropriately and within the standard of care
inquired with Mr. Chamis on November 4, 2020 as to whether he had discontinued
his medications, which one(s), and how long before the procedure. All of this
information was properly documented within the medical records and reported to
Mr. Chamis’ physicians.
 
49. As a nurse in an outpatient surgery center,
Nurse Kerr’s duty is limited to that of a registered nurse. She does not
perform surgery, she does not make the decision as to whether to proceed with
surgery or not, and she does not order a patient’s discharge. 
 
50. Nurse Kerr’s actions in the post-operative
(PACU) setting were also well within the standard of care. 
 
51. Nurse Kerr appropriately and timely
documented Mr. Chamis’ evolving symptoms, vital signs, and response to
treatment as ordered by his physicians. This included the PACU vital signs
every five minutes spanning from approximately 11:45am to 12:00pm, and then
every fifteen minutes spanning from approximately 12:00pm to 12:45pm, with
additional documentation scattered throughout the entirety of Mr. Chamis’
recovery through his discharge. 
 
52. The records reveal that Mr. Chamis vomited as
he began to wake up from the procedure. The nursing care and treatment provided
in response to this event was appropriate, which included (but not limited to),
monitoring vital signs, assisting with positioning the patient into
Trendelenburg and on his side, and assisting with oxygen administration and
breathing treatments. 
 
53. Nurse Kerr appropriately and within the
standard of care monitored Mr. Chamis’ vital signs as detailed above, reported
any material changes to his physicians, and followed orders issued by Mr.
Chamis’ physicians, including the provision of albuterol breathing treatments. 
 
54. By approximately 1:30pm, Mr. Chamis had met
the parameters for discharge. His vital signs had returned to his relative
pre-procedure baseline and were within normal limits. He did not report any
pain. And his Aldrete score at the time of discharge was 10/10. Based upon this
information, Mr. Chamis’ physicians ordered his discharge. 
 
55. Furthermore, based upon Mr. Chamis’ vital
signs gradually improving while in the PACU back to his pre-procedure baseline,
and his meeting the parameters for discharge, Nurse Kerr was not required to
call 911 or an ambulance. Rather, she appropriately and timely communicated Mr.
Chamis’ condition to his physicians and carried out their orders. 
 
56. Lastly, Nurse Kerr appropriately acted within
the nursing standard of care in facilitating Mr. Chamis’ discharge from Soma
Surgery Center. She followed the physicians’ orders and reiterated their
instructions to go to the Emergency Department for evaluation and treatment for
possible aspiration pneumonia. Mr. Chamis and his friend (responsible party) verbalized
understanding the discharge instructions and Mr. Chamis was subsequently
discharged to the care of his friend.
 
(Hughes Decl. ¶¶ 46-56.)
 
            Kerr
also relies on the Declaration of Rudolph A. Bedford, M.D., (“Bedford”) who is
board certified in internal medicine with a subspeciality in Gastroenterology,
who has been a gastroenterologist for thirty years, experienced in performing
esophagogastroduodenoscopies (EGD) “and all related pre-procedure,
intra-operative, and post-procedure physician care and treatment.”  (Bedford Decl. ¶ 3.)  Bedford similarly reviewed (1) the fifth
amended complaint; (2) Mr. Chamis’ medical records from Dr. Prokupek’s office
and Soma Surgery Center; and (3) deposition testimony of Plaintiff, Dr.
Prokupek, and Nurse Kerr.  Bedford’s
declaration indicates, in relevant part:
 
8. Nurse Kerr did not see, treat, or care for
Plaintiff on June 22, 2020.
 
[…]
 
11. Nurse Kerr did not see, treat, or care for
Plaintiff on October 14, 2020. 
 
12. Nurse Kerr never provided any instructions to
Plaintiff regarding the cessation of Xarelto at any time.
 
13. Plaintiff presented to Soma Surgery Center on
November 4, 2020 for the performance of an esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGO).
His surgeon was co-defendant Dale Prokupek, MD; his anesthesiologist was
Michelle Dinh, M.D. 
 
14. This was the only date where (sic) Nurse Kerr
provided care and treatment to Plaintiff as his nurse at Soma Surgery Center.
 
[…]
 
20. Nurse Kerr verified the patient's identity
and surgery site. She noted the surgery consent form had been signed. She noted
that a history and physical had been completed, the pre-anesthesia assessment
was completed, as well as her nursing assessment.
 
[…]
 
26. Nurse Kerr documented that upon being turned
while in Trendelenburg, the patient 11 reported that he felt much better.
[…]
 
35.  12:37:
An albuterol breathing treatment (2.5mg) was ordered by Dr. Dinh and
administered by Nurse Kerr due to the patient having difficulty breathing.
Nurse Kerr noted that she would continue to monitor.
 
[…]
 
42. At the time of discharge, the patient's vital
signs had been stable for 30 minutes, he was noted to be alert and oriented,
with no dizziness or vomiting for 30 minutes. The patient did not report any
pain and he was able to ambulate with a steady gait. 
 
43. Discharge instructions were discussed with
the patient, which included instructions from his physicians to go to the ER of
his choice for evaluation and treatment for possible aspiration pneumonia. Mr.
Chamis verbalized understanding and he was discharged to the care of his
friend. 
 
44. Nurse Kerr did not provide any care or
treatment to Plaintiff after he was discharged from Soma Surgery Center on
November 4, 2020.
 
45. Based on the foregoing facts as well as my
background, education, training, and experience, it is my opinion that, to a
reasonable degree of medical probability, none of the alleged actions/omissions
of Nurse Kerr proximately caused or was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff's
aspiration event, his subsequent stroke, or his claimed damages. There is no
causal connection between Nurse Kerr's provision of nursing care to Plaintiff
Pericles Chamis, and Plaintiff's claimed damages.
 
46. Plaintiffs aspiration event as he began to
wake up from the procedure was not medically-causally connected to any action
or inaction by Nurse Kerr. Patients can and do vomit while recovering from
anesthesia. Both the medical records as well as Mr. Chamis' testimony confirm
that he did not consume anything within eight hours before the procedure. 
 
47. Even if Plaintiff maintains that he did
consume orange juice within eight hours of the procedure, he claims that he
told his surgeon/physicians of this alleged fact before the procedure.
Ultimately, it is the surgeon/physicians who determine whether to proceed with
the surgery, not the nurse. Thus, Nurse Kerr's alleged actions/inactions did
not cause Mr. Chamis to suffer any aspiration event because she was not the one
who made the decision to proceed with his procedure. 
 
48. Next, there is no medical-causal connection
between Nurse Kerr's actions/inactions and Mr. Cham is' eventual stroke. Mr.
Cham is discontinued his Xarelto several days before he ever spoke with Nurse
Kerr; and, Nurse Kerr never provided any instructions to Mr. Chamis to discontinue
any of his medications. Rather, she was involved with confirming whether he had
stopped his medications and reported this information to his surgeon. Thus, Mr.
Chamis' stroke was not proximately caused by any action/inaction by Nurse Kerr
because she was not involved with Mr. Chamis discontinuing his Xarelto prior to
November 4, 2020. 
 
49. There is also no medical-causal connection
between Nurse Kerr's actions in the PACU and Plaintiffs injuries. Mr. Chamis'
PACU course revealed gradually improving vital signs and condition, to the
point where he was back to his pre-procedure baseline, as set forth in the
records and the facts above. Nurse Kerr's monitoring, documenting. and
following the physician's orders in administering albuterol breathing
treatments did not. to a reasonable degree of medical probability, cause any of
his injuries. 
 
50. It is also my opinion that Nurse Kerr's
actions in following the physicians' orders to discharge Mr. Cham is did not.
to a reasonable degree of medical probability, cause or contribute to any of
his injuries. A nurse, such as Nurse Kerr. does not issue orders to discharge a
patient, including when to discharge, how to discharge, and any attendant
orders regarding discharge. That duty ultimately resides with the surgeon. The
records demonstrate that Nurse Kerr properly updated Mr. Chamis'
physicians/surgeon throughout his post-procedure recovery and followed Mr.
Chamis' physicians/surgeon's orders to discharge Mr. Chamis.
 
(Bedford
Decl. ¶¶ 8, 11-14, 20, 26, 35, 42-50.)
 
Kerr’s evidence is sufficient to
meet Kerr’s burden of persuasion/production of evidence to show that Plaintiff
will be unable to establish that Kerr breached the applicable standard of care with
respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and Kerr’s breach of the standard
of care caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.  Thus, Kerr has shifted the burden of production
to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact.
 
b.      Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff advances the
Declaration of Marilyn E. McCullum (“McCullum”) who is Board-certified nurse
and an emergency medicine nurse since 2011 (McCullum Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.)
 
In forming her declaration and
opinions, McCullum reviewed (a) the Soma Surgery Center Anesthesia Records from
11/4/2020; (b) the Soma Surgery Center Nursing Notes from 11/4/2020; (c) Providence
Health Emergency Room Records from 11/4/2020; (d) Dale Prokupek, MD Operative
Report from 11/4/2020; (e) Deposition of Michelle Dinh, MD from 7/28/2023; (f) Deposition
of Dale Prokupek, MD from 10/19/2022; (g) Sixth [sic] Amended Complaint dated
8/20/2023; and (h) the Deposition of Melanie Kerr from December 8, 2023.  (McCullum Decl. ¶ 6.)  McCullum declared in pertinent part:
 
8. Based on my education, training, experience,
and review of the above records, it is my opinion that, within reasonable
degree of medical probability, Soma Surgery Center failed to satisfy the
applicable standard of care in the treatment of Pericles Chamis, specifically
but not limited to Nurse Kerr, RN. 
 
9. Based on my opinion, Soma Surgery Center,
through its nursing staff, fell below the standard of care by failing to
address the patient’s deteriorating clinical status. Nurse Kerr failed to
adequately appreciate the severity of the situation, especially given the
number of breathing treatments required in a short duration to treat the
shortness of breath Mr. Chamis experienced after vomiting. 
 
10. To a reasonable degree of medical
probability, the alleged actions/omissions of Nurse Kerr proximately caused or
contributed to Plaintiff’s aspiration event, his subsequent stroke, and his
claimed damages. 
 
11. The nursing staff through Nurse Kerr failed
to recognize the significance and seriousness of Mr. Chamis’s clinical
condition, thereby leading to a failure on their part to monitor, advocate, and
ensure safe transportation to a higher level of care for their patient in the
setting of acute respiratory failure and suspected aspiration. Accordingly,
Nurse Kerr’s alleged actions/inactions fell below the standard of care and was
a cause of Mr. Chamis suffering an aspiration event. 
 
12. Any patient with acute respiratory failure
and documented hypoxia such as Mr. Chamis should not have been discharged with
a friend, and should have been transported via ambulance, with medical
professionals, to the Emergency Department. Mr. Chamis was hypoxic upon his
arrival to the Emergency Department, and an ambulance transport would have been
able to better monitor and treat hypoxia en route. Accordingly, Nurse Kerr’s
actions/inactions fell below the standard of care and was a cause in Mr.
Chamis’ eventual stroke. 
 
13. Nurse Kerr failed to document appropriately
during the procedure, documenting there were no complications and report was
given to “self.” Although Nurse Kerr failed to document appropriately, Dr.
Prokupek testified that she was present in the operating room during the
procedure (See, Prokupek Deposition Transcript at 61:6-11). Nurse Kerr failed
to document the severity of the ongoing conditions Mr. Chamis was facing, and
her failure to document these conditions resulted in Mr. Chamis not being
transferred via ambulance to an Emergency Room. As a result of these breaches
of the Standard of Care, Mr. Chamis suffered loss, injury, and harm, including
but not limited to permanent physical disability. 
 
14. Nurse Kerr’s inactions in the PACU also fell
below the standard of care and is a cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. Mr. Chamis’
PACU course revealed deteriorating vital signs and condition, that should have
been documented. Nurse Kerr’s failure to monitor the deteriorating vital signs,
and document the same, and her failure to account for Mr. Chamis’ condition and
call an ambulance to transfer him to an emergency facility, fell below the
standard of care, and caused further injury to Plaintiff.
 
(McCullum Decl. ¶¶ 8-14.)
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to whether Nurse Kerr breached the standard of care with
respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and whether Kerr’s breach of
the standard of care proximately caused Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. 
 
Kerr argues in reply that Plaintiff’s expert, McCullum is not a “qualified”
expert, because she does not indicate she ever worked as a peri-operative
nurse, in PACU, in an outpatient surgery center, providing pre-operative instructions
or nursing care or intra-operative or peri-operative nursing care.  Kerr also argues that only licensed
physicians can render medical-causal opinions, and as such, McCullum is unqualified
to opine as to causation, and McCullum’s opinions on causation are too
conclusory to hold any evidentiary value.
 
Although McCullum’s declaration indicates, “My qualifications are
outlined in the attached curriculum vitae and made a part hereof” (McCullum
Decl. ¶ 2) the Court notes that no curriculum vitae was included among
Plaintiff’s evidence.  Nonetheless, the
McCullum Declaration indicates: 
 
1.     
I am a board-certified nurse.   [. . .]
 
2.     
I have been actively licensed and engaged in the
practice of nursing, specifically within emergency medicine, since 2011 […] 
 
3.     
I am familiar with the standard of care as it pertains
to the management in situations such as those that unfolded in this case, and I
am intimately familiar with the standard of care regarding patients with sedation,
aspiration, hypoxia, weakness, and stroke. 
 
4.     
During the last three (3) of the five (5) years
immediately preceding and including November 4, 2020, I have been employed and
worked as an emergency room nurse in the United States of America with
sufficient frequency to establish an appropriate level of knowledge as to the standard
of care generally employed in the nursing profession under similar and like circumstances
for nurses in hospitals in the United States of America in caring for patients
similar to those with the same signs and symptoms and diagnosis as Plaintiff.
 
5.     
I am familiar with the standard of care employed in the
nursing profession under similar and like circumstances by nurses in hospitals
in the United States of America for the year 2020.
 
(McCullum
Decl. ¶¶ 1-5.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has
established McCullum’s baseline qualifications to render an expert opinion as
to the standard of care.  The degree and
extent of McCullum’s training and experience as compared with Kerr’s expert
witness go to the weight that should be afforded to the evidence.  The Court may not weigh the evidence on a
motion for summary judgment.   (Weiss,
supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead
view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable
inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
            As for McCullum’s qualifications to
render an opinion on causation, Plaintiff argues that only a licensed physician
can render a diagnosis.  However, McCullum
did not render a diagnosis; rather she examined Plaintiff’s medical records and
the diagnoses rendered by Dr. Prokupek, Dr. Dinh, and the Providence Health
Emergency Room records, and opined as to whether Kerr fell below the applicable
standard of nursing care and whether those breaches caused, contributed to, or
exacerbated Plaintiff’s diagnosed injuries. 
Kerr cites to Business and Professions Code section 2052, which simply
indicates that it is unlawful to practice medicine without a license.  Kerr has cited to no authority indicating
that a nurse may not render an opinion as to causation as a matter of law.  
 
            Kerr also argues that McCullum’s
expert opinions are conclusory.  In
support, Kerr cites to Lockheed Martin Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 29
Cal.4th 1096, 1110-1111 (hereafter Lockheed Martin) and Jennings
v. Palomar Pomerado Health Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
1108, 1118 (hereafter Jennings).  
 
            In Lockheed Martin, the
expert’s opinion that class members are “at greater risk of developing cancer
and other serious illness” was “too qualified, tentative and conclusory to
constitute substantial evidence” to support the trial court’s finding that
common issues predominated on motion for class certification.  (Lockheed Martin, supra, 29
Cal.4th at pp. 1110-1111.)  Thus, in
weighing the evidence, the appellate court determined that the expert’s opinion
was insufficient to establish predominance. 
But courts are not permitted to weigh evidence on a motion for summary
judgment.
 
            In Jennings, the court struck
expert testimony that a retractor “could have” caused bacteria to grow, but the
testimony did not account for how the bacteria migrated all the way to the
subcutaneous tissue, “while leaving the peritoneal wall intact and leaving
behind no trail of inflamed or infected tissue evidencing this migration.”  (Jennings, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1118.)  The court found this testimony
“too conclusory to support a jury verdict on causation.”  (Id. at p. 1120.)
 
            By contrast, here, McCullum declared
that Kerr failed to adequately monitor and document Plaintiff’s deteriorating
condition in accordance with the applicable standard of care, which caused Plaintiff
to be released to the care of his friend instead of being rushed by ambulance
to the emergency room.  Thus, McCullum’s
declaration is not speculative; it indicates that as a result of Kerr’s failure
to properly monitor and document Plaintiff’s condition, the severity of
Plaintiff’s condition was overlooked and/or obscured and emergency treatment
delayed, causing or contributing to Plaintiff’s injuries.  
 
Whether McCullum’s opinion will ultimately convince a trier of fact
that Kerr in fact fell below the standard of care and those breaches caused or
contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries goes to the weight of the evidence, which the
Court cannot consider at the summary judgment stage.
            
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Kerr’s Motion for Summary Judgment is denied.  Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient to meet
Plaintiff’s burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of triable issues of material fact as to whether Kerr breached the standard of
care with respect to the treatment and care of Plaintiff, and whether Kerr’s
breach of the standard of care proximately caused Plaintiff’s claimed injuries.

 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
 
DATED:  March 19, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 