  Case Number:  20TRCV00847    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 16, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   20TRCV00847
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                         Drakk Holdings, LLC
v. PSIP SN Vermont LLC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, PSIP SN Vermont,
LLC
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Drakk Holdings, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        November 12, 2024 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment 
                                                (2) DRAKK’s objection
to PSIP’s Notice of Motion to Quash Deposition Ruling
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUED to allow the
Zion Bank Deposition to be completed
                                                (2) Mooted in light of the Court’s
determination that, especially given the tentative against Drakk on the MSJ, The
Zion Bank depo must go forward per CCP section 437c(h).  The birth of counsel’s child is just cause to
need to re-schedule a deposition that counsel was to be taking
 
Discussion 
 
            This
Court requested the parties to discuss the issues identified at the previous
hearing involving section 7.2.5 of the PSA. 
Both sides submitted 5 pages of briefs relating to the construction of
Section 7.2.5, and the Court has digested those briefs.  The Court has also reviewed Mr. Kenneally’s July
3, 2024 Declaration.  At the to-be-continued
hearing that will occur after the Zion Bank deposition, the Court has these additional
thoughts for counsel to consider between now and then.
 
 
            In
DRAKK’s supplemental opposition brief, it argues that Defendant failed to
provide any admissible evidence that the Property complied with the Conditions
of Approval regarding the Tentative Parcel Map. 
The Court is puzzled by this argument because the Final Map, not merely
the Tentative, was filed as having been entirely approved nearly a year after
the September 26, 2019 tentative approval letter from the County Department of
Regional Planning.  At the continued hearing,
DRAKK’s counsel should be prepared to explain how any of the 2019 conditions of
approval are material in light of the filing of the Final Parcel Map.  Does not the filing of the Final Parcel Map
establish “local approval”?  Does not the
filing of the Final Map prove compliance with the Subdivision Map Act?  Is there any evidence before the Court that
Mr. Kenneally raised any allegedly unsatisfied specific condition of approval with
DRAKK after Sean became “alarmed” about PSIP’s Notice of the September 25, 2020
Tract Map recording?  The Court’s tentative
ruling to grant the defense MSJ posits that PSIP has carried its initial burden
on an MSJ, so the burden is shifted to DRAKK to show a disputed issue that is
material to the determination of the motion. 

 
            As
to DRAKK’s argument that the closing date should be construed to be at least 15
days after the last of the filing of the Final Map, CC&Rs
and Access Agreement, the Court tentatively finds that argument does not raise any
triable issue of material fact.  The undisputed
evidence before the Court is that the Final Parcel Map recorded on September 4,
2020, the CC&Rs recorded on October 1, 2020, and the Access Agreement
recorded on October 6, 2020, all of which are more than 15 days before the last
extended deadline of October 30, 2020. How does that chronology raise a triable
issue of fact as to the closing date? 
And how does the absence of the map itself in evidence raise a material
issue of fact if it is undisputed that it was recorded more than 15 days before
the extended closing date?  
 
               The
Court will not take oral argument on these Court questions at the July 16, 2024
continued hearing, but will take argument as to the date to which the hearing should
be continued so that the Zion Bank deposition can be taken and (a likely now) expedited
transcript can be submitted.  The Court tentatively
will permit each side to file yet another up to 5-page supplemental brief bearing
on what if anything the Court should consider from the Zion Bank testimony, and
will take oral argument as to whether the briefs should be filed simultaneously
or DRAKK should file first and PSIP be given a later date for its
response.  
 
 
 