 Case Number:  24TRCV00835    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative RulingHEARING DATE:  July 17, 2024 CASE NUMBER:  24TRCV00835  CASE NAME: We Are Reality, Inc. v. Pieces, LP, et al.   MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Pieces, LP RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiff, We Are Reality, Inc.   TRIAL DATE:  Not Set, but TSC on 7/29/24 MOTION: (1) Motion for Order to Stay Writ of Possession (2) Continued hearing on Reasonable Expenses Payment as Condition of Granting Motion to Vacate Default  Tentative Rulings:  (1) GRANTED.  By vacating the default judgment, the Court implicitly would recall and quash the Writ (2)  IF the parties have not negotiated a reasonable reimbursement amount as orally argued during the motion to vacate hearing, the Court will make an award    I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn March 11, 2024, Plaintiff, We Are Reality, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Defendant, Pieces, LP, and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges Plaintiff is the landlord and owner of the subject property of 249 Rees St., Playa Del Rey, CA 90293. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant, Pieces, LP agreed to pay $20,000 a month in rent. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to pay rent and was served a three-day notice to pay rent or quit. Now, Plaintiff seeks to recover past due rent owed by Defendant in the amount of $45,000.   On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Application and Order to Serve Summons by Posting for Unlawful Detainer, which was subsequently granted the same day.   On May 14, 2024, default entry was entered by the Court’s clerk as against Defendant, Pieces, LP (“Defendant”) as to possession only of the subject property. On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Application for Writ of Possession. On May 20, 2024, this Court issued the writ of possession.  On July 8, 2024, this Court heard and GRANTED Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment and placed this matter back on its calendar.   Prior to that ruling, this Defendant also filed a Motion for Order to Stay Writ of Possession.    B. ProceduralOn June 17, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion for an Order to Stay Writ of Possession. On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed.    II. ANALYSIS  Legal Standard   “Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (CCP § 512.010(a).)  Pursuant to CCP § 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include the following:  (1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff’s claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.  (2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.  (3) A particular description of the property and a statement of its value.  (4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located there.  (5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.  Before the hearing on the application for writ of possession, the defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof. (Id. § 512.030.)  “At the hearing, a writ of possession shall issue if both of the following are found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property. (2) The undertaking requirements of Section 515.010 are satisfied.” (Id. § 512.060(a).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (Id. § 511.090.) A writ of possession shall not issue unless the plaintiff files an undertaking “in an amount not less than twice the value of the defendant’s interest in the property or in a greater amount.” (Id. § 515.010(a).)  Further, the Court has inherent authority to stay proceedings to promote judicial efficiency or if the ends of justice so require. (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1484, 1489.) In determining whether an action should be stayed, the court should generally consider “the following factors: (1) the interest of the [party opposing the stay] in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to [the party opposing the stay] of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the proceedings may impose on [the party seeking the stay]; (3) the convenience of the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation; and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.” (Bains v. Moores (2009) 172 Cal. App. 4th 445, 483.)¿   Discussion   Here, Defendant contends it will suffer extreme hardship if the writ of possession is not stayed because Defendant will not only lose possession of the subject property, but also its right to purchase the subject property under the terms of the RPA. The Court agrees with Defendant that the case at bar appears to contain a complicated ownership issue as the parties suggest there are different lease agreements at issue. For example, Defendant argues that pursuant to the terms of the RPA, before Plaintiff could cancel the RPA, it was required to deliver a demand to close escrow. However, Defendant argues that because Plaintiff never delivered such a demand, its CC is ineffective, and the RPA remains a legally binding contract.   As the parties are aware, this Court GRANTED Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment. The Court further finds that recalling and quashing the writ of execution weighs in favor of Defendant.    

