 Case Number:  23TRCV02800    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative RulingHEARING DATE:  July 16, 2024 CASE NUMBER:  23TRCV02800  CASE NAME: Susanne Rose, et al. v. Ocean Ten, LLC, et al.  MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Ocean Ten, LLC, BD Management Company, LLC, Bryan Bohlinger, and Patricia Padilla   RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Susanne Rose, Nick Saba, Sr., Jeanette Rowland, Nick Saba Jr., Shameka Fleming, Marquan Pikes, Malaya Pikes, Mashaila Pikes   TRIAL DATE:  Not Set.MOTION:  (1) Demurrer  Tentative Rulings:  (1) Defendant’s demurrer is tentatively SUSTAINED pending oral argument, and without leave to amend as tot eh 12 alleged cause of action under the ADA      I. BACKGROUND
A. Factual  On August 24, 2023, Plaintiffs, Susanne Rose, Nick Saba, Sr., Jeanette Rowland, Nick Saba Jr., Shameka Fleming, Marquan Pikes, Malaya Pikes, Mashaila Pikes (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Ocean Ten, LLC, BD Management Company, LLC, Beach Front Property Management, Bryan Bohlinger, and Patricia Padilla, and DOES 1 through 50. On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On February 1, 2024, this Court sustained the Defendants’ previous demurrer with leave to amend.   As noted in this Court’s previous tentative ruling, the causes of action here are based on numerous allegations, and three categories of alleged discrimination based on disability and medical condition: (1) Constant Elevator Outages at the Subject Property (alleged by Susanne Rose and Nick Saba, Sr. who claim to rely on the elevator to access their homes and community and receive emergency medical services. Despite this, they allege that Defendants refuse to maintain the elevators and service interruptions have increased with Ocean Ten LLC’s new ownership and management, specifying, the elevators are out of service more than 50% of the time); (2) Inoperable Pool (Plaintiffs allege they have all been inconvenienced by the closing down of the pool beginning in March 2022, but this has especially inconvenienced Plaintiff, Marquan Pikes is diagnosed with schizophrenia and alleges that he requires access to a pool to improve positive and manage negative symptoms, as well as increase quality of life and cognition); and (3) Taking Away of Accessible Parking (Nick Saba Sr. notes he was given a parking spot near the elevator because of his disability and medical situation, but in June of 2022, Defendant Padilla took this spot aware, forcing Nick Saba Sr. to walk a greater distance to get to and from the elevator from his car.) (4)Retaliatory Notices to Terminate Tenancy and Refusal to Grant Plaintiffs’ Reasonable Accommodation Request for Additional Time to Move (Plaintiffs claim they have been served with notices to quit in retaliation for their complaints about the uninhabitable conditions despite pleading with Defendants to give them additional time to move because of their disabilities and medical conditions.)  On February 1, 2024, this Court SUSTAINED Demurring Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend.   On February 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability (common law); (2) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability (statutory); (3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (4) Breach of Contract; (5) Private Nuisance; (6) Discriminatory Practices on Account of Disability and Medical Condition (FEHA § 12955); (7) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; (8) Negligence; (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (10) Retaliation; (11) Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200); and (12) Violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act.   Defendants, Ocean Ten, LLC, BD Management Company, LLC, Bryan Bohlinger, and Patricia Padilla (collectively, “Demurring Defendants”) have once again files a demurrer and motion to strike, this time directed at portions of Plaintiffs’ SAC.   B. ProceduralOn March 29, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed this demurrer.   On May 2, 2024,  this Court continued the June 21, 2024 date to July 16, 2024.   On May 9, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed an Amended Notice of the Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint.   On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On July 9, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed a reply brief.   II. ANALYSIS  Legal Standard    A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Discussion   Preliminarily, this Court notes that because it previously analyzed the last demurrer in great detail, in the interest of brevity, the Court will be abbreviating the analysis of this demurrer.   Moreover, as the amended pleading was served on Defendants on February 21, 2024, Defendants’ responsive pleadings were due by March 26, 2024. However, the demurrer was not filed until March 29, 2024. This alone can be grounds for this Court to sustain the demurrer, but the Court will analyze the issues on their merits below.   Discriminatory Practices on Account of Disability and Medical Condition  Elevator   Previously, in this Court’s February 1, 2024 tentative ruling, it noted that it was not persuaded by  Demurring Defendants’ argument that the failure to maintain working elevators in an alleged multi-story apartment building failed to allege actual discrimination. However, this Court also held that the FAC failed to specifically allege that either Saba Sr. or Rose were unable to ascend or descend stairs because of their alleged disabilities. Other than paragraph 82, which vaguely alleged that being forced to walk up the stairs “ha[d] been a danger of [Rose and Saba Jr.’s] health and welfare,” nothing in the FAC spoke to the inability to use the stairs. Further, this Court noted that amended paragraph 86 of the FAC and its sub-paragraphs alleged impacts the Plaintiffs had suffered during elevator outages, and paragraph 90 of the FAC vaguely alleged that “plaintiffs and their counsel gave notices to Defendants” of the effect that a non-functional elevator had on their medical conditions, that Defendants had notice that being forced to walk upstairs was dangerous to their health or welfare, but not that any of them sought an accommodation regarding the elevator outages. The Court questioned whether plaintiffs contended that the “accommodation” request was notice to “take steps to provide a functional elevator system,” and the Court further questioned how that would be an accommodation.   Here, in Plaintiffs’ SAC, the Court is faced with a similar issue. Plaintiffs have certainly alleged that “Defendants [were] aware of the repeated danger to which they subject[ed] their disabled tenants. Plaintiffs [argue that they] and their counsel have repeatedly notified Defendants and their agents about the frequent elevator malfunctions and their hazardous impact upon Saba Sr., Rose, and other tenants with disabilities.” (SAC, ¶ 90.) Further, Plaintiffs also contend that “Defendants have refused for years to take the necessary steps to provide functional elevator system and/or have intentionally shut off the elevator to cause hardship to Saba Sr. and Rose.” (SAC, ¶ 91.) Plaintiffs also allege that “[a]t all relevant times to this action, all of the Defendants were well aware of the above-noted Plaintiffs’ disabilities because they repeatedly informed Defendants about their disabilities both in writing and orally.” (SAC, ¶ 114.) Moreover, the Plaintiffs allege that the notices were included in the five (5) same writings alleged in the FAC. (SAC, ¶¶ 115-119.)  Despite these allegations, it appears that none of them have substantially changed, and that the SAC, like the FAC, does not contain allegations that either Saba Sr. or Rose were unable to ascend or descend stairs because of their alleged disabilities or that any of the Plaintiffs sought a FEHA-like request for accommodations, distinct from notice of a problem that needed a correction, or what Plaintiffs’ SAC also refers to as an “inconvenience.” (SAC, ¶ 82.)  As this Court previously noted, such allegations are insufficient to maintain the sixth cause of action. In this Court’s previous February 1, 2024 tentative ruling, it noted that it would entertain oral argument as to whether Plaintiffs believed a legitiamte accommodation cause of action could be alleged. As the SAC did not remedy the deficiencies identified by this Court previously, the Court SUSTAINS demurrer as to the elevator issue in the sixth cause of action. Plaintiffs will be required to present oral argument on whether or not they can allege facts that this Court has noted would cure the shortcomings of the pleadings. If not, this cause of action as it pertains to the alleged inoperable elevators will be sustained without leave to amend.   Pool Access    Similar to the Court’s February 1, 2024 analysis of the elevator issue, this Court also found that the FAC failed to actually allege any request for a FEHA-like accommodation as opposed to a demand to re-open access to the pool. The Court noted that the FAC also failed to allege a pre-litigation request for a reasonable accommodation as distinct from a request to remedy a facility or utility in need of repair.   While the SAC continues to contain allegations that Defendants were, at all times, aware that Marquan Pikes needed access to the pool as a result of his disability and medical condition because Marquan’s mother repeatedly informed Defendant Padilla of this fact (SAC, ¶ 108), the SAC does include new allegations. While the FAC alleged that the pool was closed to all residents, the SAC contends that “although other tenants were given a code to access the pool, Defendants refused to provide Plaintiffs, including Marquan, with the pool code. (SAC, ¶ 110.)   This Court notes that if Plaintiffs, including Marquan, were denied access to the pool, as opposed to other residents, this may qualify as direct discrimination versus accommodation. However, the Court is unclear, as these are new allegations, as to whether the pool was closed to all tenants, or whether Defendants denied Plaintiffs access only. Although not argued by Demurring Defendants, these new allegations may also result in uncertain ones as paragraph 55(o) asserts that the “[s]wimming pool was closed for months on end, even during the hot summer months” (SAC, ¶ 55(o)), and that “Defendants closed down the pool beginning in March 2022…” (SAC, ¶ 107.) These two allegations stand for the same proposition the FAC did – that the pool was closed down to all tenants, but that specifically, the closure affected Plaintiff Marquan more so than it may have other tenants.   The Court requires oral argument as to the uncertainty the new allegations have created, and clarification from Plaintiffs as to whether they are alleging just Plaintiffs named in this lawsuit were denied access to the pool or all tenants.   Accessible Parking  Demurring Defendants do not demur as to this issue regarding taking away Saba Sr.’s accessible parking (near the elevator).    Extended Move-Out Time  In this Court’s February 1, 2024, tentative ruling as to the extended move-out time, the Court found that Plaintiffs allegations were alleged in a conclusory way. This Court noted that the previous demurrer’s argument that Plaintiffs have not yet moved out was beyond the four corners of the FAC, but nonetheless, appeared in the opposition as a concession. As such, this Court noted that it did not seem as though the accommodation was denied (a required element on a FEHA cause of action.) This Court found that paragraph 111 of the FAC alleged a concession by Saba Sr. that Bryan engaged in an interactive process and asked Plaintiff to suggest a move-out date. Further, this Court also noted that paragraph 112 of the FAC alleged that Plaintiffs’ counsel requested a 12-month extension, which this Court posited may stretch the limits of what might be considered a “reasonable” accommodation request beyond a 60-day notice period. This Court found that the only allegation that might have supported this issue was paragraph 131 of the FAC, which stated that Defendants initiated a retaliatory eviction action against the Fleming/Pikes and Saba/Rowland households. However, ultimately, this Court held that the allegations, as pled in the FAC, were insufficient to maintain this cause of action as to the extended move-out time.   In Plaintiffs’ SAC, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants refused to provide the accommodation (SAC, ¶¶ 112-119), and instead initiated an eviction action against the Saba and Fleming/Pikes families. (SAC, ¶ 140.) It appears that the allegations pled in the SAC, and specifically relied on in Plaintiffs’ opposition brief, do not lend themselves to more specificity than the FAC, and remain virtually the same. The Court’s identified deficiencies in the FAC appear to continue to remain in the SAC. The parties are again to argue how the FAC and SAC allegations equate to denying of an accommodation.   Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act Previously, at the February 1, 2024 hearing, this Court noted that it was not enough to merely allege facts in a conclusory manner and tack on citations to ADA code sections. The Court further noted that Plaintiffs were not barred from moving on a cause of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act for intentional discrimination over failure to accommodate. However, this Court did find that based on the FAC allegations, Plaintiffs’ conclusory allegations of “intentional discrimination” did not suffice when the complained-of actions apply to tenants generally. The FAC alleged that Defendants’ residential housing provided approximately 170 apartment-style units, and that the elevators and pool were inoperable or closed to the tenants who occupy the other apartment-style units as well as Plaintiffs. This Court reasoned that without allegations that Defendants closed the pool or failed to maintain the elevators because of Plaintiffs’ disabilities, Plaintiffs could not maintain a cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act based on access to the elevators and pool.  Here, as noted above, Plaintiffs SAC has added allegations as to intentionally closing the pool and failing to maintain the elevators because of  Plaintiffs’ disabilities. For example, Plaintiffs have amended their pleading to allege that other tenants were given a code to access the pool while Plaintiffs, specifically, Marquan, were refused code access to the pool. (SAC, ¶ 110.) Plaintiffs also allege that based on their experiences and observations, they believe that Defendant, Patricia Padilla, regularly and maliciously switched off the elevator with full knowledge of the effect an inoperable elevator would have on Saba Sr. and Rose. (SAC, ¶ 85.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants have intentionally shut off the elevator to cause hardship to Saba Sr. and Rose. (SAC, ¶ 91.) Again, although not argued by Demurring Defendants, the Court seeks oral argument on the uncertainty of these new additional allegations, because, as noted above, the SAC also states that the pool was closed to all tenants. Further, the SAC also alleges that “Defendants refused to maintain the elevators and service interruptions increased when Ocean Ten LLC took over ownership and management of the subject property in or about late 2021. Since then, Defendants have failed and refused to maintain the elevator which has been out of service more that 50% of the time.” (SAC, ¶ 80.) An allegation that suggests that 50% of the time since new ownership, the elevators have been inoperable suggests historical inoperability, not inoperability based on retaliation for Plaintiffs’ accommodation notices. This is even more apparent when Plaintiffs allege that Saba Sr. and Rose observed the elevators would often be inoperable during weekends and mysteriously became operable on Mondays. (SAC, ¶ 84.) Did Plaintiffs’ communications with Defendants occur over the weekend? Are Plaintiffs’ appointments on the weekend versus the weekdays?  As such, this Court requires oral argument as to the above issues.  Accessible Parking & Extended Move Out Time  Again, as with the Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action, Demurring Defendants do not appear to raise any arguments on demurrer as to this issue regarding taking away Saba Sr.’s accessible parking (near the elevator).  Demurring Defendants also do not bring up argument with respect to the seventh cause of action as it pertains to extended move out time.  Violation of the American Disabilities Act  Since filing their FAC, Plaintiffs have added a twelfth cause of action to their SAC of Violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”). Demurring Defendants demur to this cause of action on the grounds they argue it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against them. Specifically, Demurring Defendants argue correctly, that the ADA does not interpret places of “public accommodation” to mean residential buildings.  Per the moving papers, California Courts have clarified this point. Specifically, in Coronado v. Cobblestone Village Community Rentals, L.P. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 831 (“Coronado”), the plaintiff in Coronado also argued that a residential apartment complex should fit into one of the twelve (12) categories of “public accommodations” specified in section 12181 of the ADA, specifically, the category of “inn, hotel, motel, or other place of lodging. (Coronado, supra, 163 Cal.App.4th at 849.)  The Coronado Court disagreed: “[e]ven when liberally construed, the wording cannot reasonably stretch that far.” (Ibid.) The Court reasoned that the congressional legislative history confirms this point because it “explicitly states only nonresidential facilities were intended to be covered by the ADA.” (Ibid, citing  H.R.Rep.101-485(II), 2d Sess., p. 303 (1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.Code Cong. & Admin. News, p. 383.) The Coronado Court also noted that federal courts addressing the issue have consistently held that the ADA does not apply to residential facilities such as apartments or condominiums. (Regents of Mercers. College v. Rep. Franklin Ins. (3d Cir. 2006) 458 F.3d 159, 165-166, fn. 8 [“residential facilities such as apartments and condominiums are not transient lodging and, therefore, not subject to ADA compliance”]; ¿Lancaster v. Phillips Investments, LLC¿(M.D.Ala.2007) 482 F.Supp.2d 1362, 1367;¿Indep. Housing Services v. Fillmore Ctr.¿(N.D.Cal.1993) 840 F.Supp. 1328, 1344, fn. 14;¿Mabson v. Assn. of Apt. Owners¿(D.Hawaii August 13, 2007, Civ. No. 06–00235DAE–LEK) 2007 WL 2363349, *10, 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 59260 at *30;¿Phibbs v. Am. Prop. Mgmt.¿(D.Utah March 19, 2008, No. 2:02CV00260DB), 2008 WL 746977, *3, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 21879 at **6–8.)¿  Plaintiffs’ Opposition fails to cite to any precedent suggesting otherwise. In fact, the only case relied upon by Plaintiffs does involve an elevator, but the elevator issue was present in a courthouse (a place of public accommodation.) (Barrilleaux v. Mendocino County (2014) 61 F.Supp.3d 906.)   Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the twelfth cause of action, without leave to amend.   IV. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer is tentatively SUSTAINED pending oral argument.     Demurring Defendants are ordered to give notice. 

