  Case Number:  23STCV16593    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


January 21, 2025




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV16593




MOTION:  


Motion for Leave to Amend




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Juan B. Rosales




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Juan B. Rosales (“Plaintiff”) moves for leave to file a first amended
complaint.  Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”) does not oppose the motion. 

ANALYSIS
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “The court may, in furtherance
of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by
correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect;
and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court
may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon
any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by the code.”  The Court has wide
discretion to allow either party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be
just.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  Judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to
amend is liberally granted.  (Berman
vs. Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  “[I]t is an abuse of discretion for the court
to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by
the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, a motion to amend a pleading must include a copy
of the proposed amendment and state the allegations the moving party proposes
to add or delete. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324 also requires the moving party to advance a
declaration stating the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary
and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff relies
on the declaration of his counsel, Siyun Yang (“Counsel”).  Counsel states that Plaintiff seeks leave amend
to modify Plaintiff’s claims based on recent case law, Rodriguez v. FCA US,
LLC (2024) 17 Cal.5th 189 (Rodriguez).  Such amendments are proper to resolve all
disputes between the parties.  Additionally,
Counsel asserts the amendment did not become necessary until after October 31,
2024 when the California Supreme Court issued its decision in the  Rodriguez case (Declaration of SiyunYang,
¿ 8); Counsel attempted to enter into a stipulation with Defendant concerning the
amendment before filing this motion (id., ¿ 9); Counsel explains why the
amendment is necessary and its practical effect (id., ¿¿ 10-21, 27); and
Counsel has attached a proposed first amended complaint to Counsel’s
declaration (id., Exhibit 1).  
Accordingly, the
motion is granted, and Plaintiff’s proposed first amended complaint is deemed
filed and served this date.
Plaintiff is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.