 Case Number:  23STCV28663    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED.
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate a controversy, a court must
order the petitioner and respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines the arbitration agreement exists, unless (1) the petitioner has
waived its right to arbitrate; (2) grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement; or (3) “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
“[T]he party moving
to compel arbitration bears the burden of establishing the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
The role of the trial court is to sit as a trier of fact, weighing any
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, together with oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a determination on the
issue of arbitrability.” (Hotels Nevada
v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)
 
Defendant Simplified
Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (SLSS) moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff
Fernando Velez Rojas’ (Plaintiff) claims against it pursuant to an arbitration
agreement executed by Plaintiff on November 5, 2019, covering all disputes
between Plaintiff and SLSS “relating to or arising out of or in connection with
employment at the Company or the termination of that employment.” (Motion Exh.
1.)
 
Plaintiff contends the
agreement was fraudulently induced because it was presented to him in English
without explanation as to its contents, along with a number of other documents,
and with no instructions but to sign. (Opposition at pp. 12–14; Rojas Decl. ¶¶
9–17.) However, “[u]nder the general contract principles . . .  the fact that [the plaintiff] signed a
contract in a language he may not have completely understood would not bar
enforcement of the arbitration agreement. If [the plaintiff] did not speak or
understand English sufficiently to comprehend the English Contract, he should
have had it read or explained to him.” (Ramos v.
Westlake Services LLC (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 674, 687.) Although Plaintiff contends that he does not
functionally speak or read English, he does not contend that the content of the
agreement was ever misrepresented to him. Thus there is no basis in fraud to
deny the motion.
 
 
Plaintiff also contends
that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable. “Unconscionability requires a
showing of both procedural unconscionability and substantive
unconscionability.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 771, 795.) Arbitration contracts presented to employees on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis are at least minimally procedurally unconscionable. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113.)
 
However, Plaintiff
identifies no substantively unconscionable portions of the agreement. Although
Plaintiff cites the failure to include an opt-out clause or to attach the AAA
rules that would govern arbitration, Plaintiff acknowledges that these factors
go to procedural rather than substantive unconscionability. (Opposition at pp.
16–17.) The sole unconscionable provision of the contract that Plaintiff
identifies is its incorporation of the AAA discovery rules, which state in
full: “The arbitrator shall have the authority to order such discovery, by way
of deposition,
interrogatory,
document production, or otherwise, as the arbitrator considers necessary to a
full
and fair
exploration of the issues in dispute, consistent with the expedited nature of
arbitration.” (Opposition at p. 17.) 
But the
very case that Plaintiff cites to support the argument that this language is
unduly restrictive stands for the opposite position. Plaintiff cites Davis
v. Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, in which the court held
invalid an arbitration discovery provision limiting each party to “a maximum of
two depositions” without any “express provisions entitling the parties to
propound interrogatories, requests for admission, or demand for production of
all relevant documents,” and which permitted the exceeding of these limits only
“on a showing of ‘sufficient cause.’” (Id. at p. 911.) The court there expressly distinguished that
arbitration provision from the AAA discovery rule at issue here, citing another
decision that express found the rule applicable to FEHA claims. (Id. at
pp. 911–912; Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462,1476
[“There appears to be no meaningful difference between the scope of discovery
approved in Armendariz and that authorized by the AAA employment
dispute rules, certainly not the role of the arbitrator in controlling the
extent of actual discovery permitted.”].) The discovery rule is not
unconscionable. 
Plaintiff finally argues that no arbitration should be
ordered because Defendant Eric Gallegos does not join the motion and did not
sign the arbitration agreement. (Opposition at p. 11.) It is true that the
court may deny an arbitration petition when “[a] party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with
a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd.
(c).) But there is no danger of conflicting rulings here. Gallegos has not
appeared in this action, and Plaintiff has yet to file a proof of service
applicable to him. If and when Gallegos appears in this matter, the arbitration
agreement would be applicable to him as well, as the signature page of the
arbitration agreement makes clear that it applies to “any such claim or dispute
against the Company or any affiliated companies or entities, and all of their
owners, employees, officers, directors or agents.” (Motion Exh. 1.) Because Gellegos is pleaded to
be an employee of SLSS and is sued for acts committed in the course of his
employment relationship, there is a high likelihood that the arbitration
agreement is enforceable as to him. (Ronay
Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013)
216 Cal.App.4th 830, 839.) Even if Gallegos is not joined in the present
motion, his absence thus furnishes no basis to deny it.
The motion to compel arbitration is therefore GRANTED. 