  Case Number:  22CHCV00766    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/24/24
Case #22CHCV00766
 
MOTION FOR
APPROVAL OF PAGA SETTLEMENT
 
Motion filed on 3/13/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Cam Luu
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants JV Property Management &
Brokerage, Inc. and Noble Property Services, LLC
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order approving
the PAGA Representative Action Settlement in this case.  

 
RULING: 
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Cam Luu’s (Plaintiff)
employment as a non-exempt employee with Defendants JV Property Management
& Brokerage, Inc. (JVPM) and Noble Property Services, LLC (NPS)
(collectively, Defendants) as an hourly leasing agent and concierge from
approximately May 2021 until February 2022. 
(Complaint ¶1).  
 
On 3/2/22, Plaintiff gave written notice to the Labor
Workforce and Development Agency (LWDA) and to Defendants of Plaintiff’s intent
to pursue Private Attorney General Act (PAGA) civil penalties pursuant to Labor
Code sections 2698, et seq. for failure to pay all wages, including minimum,
regular, and overtime wages; failure to provide meal and rest periods; failure
to provide accurate itemized wage statements; failure to provide paid sick
leave; failure to pay all wages due during and upon termination of employment;
and failure to reimburse necessary business expenses.  (Kazandjian Decl. ¶5, Ex.2).  
 
The LWDA did not notify Plaintiff of its intention to
investigate the allegations contained in the PAGA Notice and Defendants did not
serve Plaintiff with a notice of intent to cure the alleged defects pursuant to
Labor Code 2699.3.  (Kazandjian Decl. ¶¶6,
9).  
 
On 9/19/23, Plaintiff filed this representative PAGA
complaint on behalf of himself and all other aggrieved employees.  (Kazandjian Decl. ¶7).  Thereafter, the parties engaged in
litigation.  (Id.  ¶8).  On
10/18/23, the parties engaged in mediation which resulted in a settlement
subject to Court approval.  (Id.
¶10, Ex.1).  
 
On 3/13/24, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion,
originally set for hearing on 5/9/24, seeking an order approving the PAGA
Representative Action Settlement in this case. 
Defendants  filed a limited
opposition to the motion and Plaintiff filed a reply to the limited
opposition.  
 
On 5/9/24, the Court continued the hearing to 6/24/24 to
address issues regarding the language in a notice/letter to be sent to the
Aggrieved Employees along with the settlement checks and for the Administrator,
Simpluris, Inc., to provide information regarding the procedures it has in
place to protect employee data and insurance for any data breach.  (See 5/9/24 Minute Order). 
 
ANALYSIS 

 
On 5/16/24, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration
in further support of the motion which states that the parties have met and
conferred and come to an agreement regarding the notice to be sent to the
Aggrieved Employees along with the settlement checks.  (See Tapanian Decl. ¶3, Ex.A).  
 
Additionally, a declaration from Simpluris is provided
regarding the issues requested.  (Id.
¶4, Ex.B).  
 
CONCLUSION
 
While the declaration of attorney Tapanian and exhibits
attached thereto address the issues requested by the Court in its 5/9/24 Minute
Order, the proposed Order lodged therewith does not include the exhibits
referenced therein.  Contrary to the
assertion in the proposed order, the Settlement Agreement is not attached to
the order as Exhibit 1 nor is Exhibit A to that Settlement Agreement.  (See proposed Order, p.1:27, p.2:3,
p.2:22, p.2:25). 
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion will be granted upon
the submission of a proposed order which attaches the Settlement Agreement as
Exhibit 1 and includes the notice to Aggrieved Employees as Exhibit A
thereto.   
 
 
 
 
   