 Case Number:  23CHCV01045    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 6/24/24
Case #23CHCV01045
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 5/9/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Choghik Chouhmalian, as the Successor-in-Interest of the Estate of Ostin
Demirjian, deceased; Choghik Chouhmalian, an individual; Garo Oshin Demirjian,
a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Lina Vartanian; Arman Souren
Demirjian, a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem , Lina Vartanian

NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint:
            1.  Health Care Provider Negligence Leading to
Injury or Death, Civil Code 3333.1/Professional Negligence
            2.  Survivorship
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of the care and treatment provided
to and the subsequent death of decedent Ostin Demirjian (Decedent) on 4/1/22 by
Defendants American Medical Response of Southern California (American Medical
Response); Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (Henry Mayo); Steven Schafer,
M.D.; Steven M. Schaefer, M.D., Inc.; Richard L. Goldman, M.D. (dismissed by
Plaintiffs on 5/23/24); Tower Imaging Medical Group (dismissed by
Plaintiffs on 5/24/24); and Tower Imaging Medical Associates, Inc. (dismissed
by Plaintiffs on 5/23/24) (collectively, Defendants).  
 
Plaintiffs Choghik Chouhmalian, as the
Successor-in-Interest of the Estate of Ostin Demirjian, deceased; Choghik
Chouhmalian, an individual; Garo Oshin Demirjian, a minor by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem, Lina Vartanian; Arman Souren Demirjian, a minor by and
through his Guardian Ad Litem , Lina Vartanian (collectively, Plaintiffs)
allege that in March 2022 Decedent  had a
surgical procedure after which a chest tube was inserted.  (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶28).  On 4/1/122, while at home, Decedent began to
suffer from shortness of breath. (FAC ¶29). 
Paramedics from American Medical Response arrived to treat Decedent, and
while doing so, his chest tube was pulled or moved, causing it to become
dislodged and causing bleeding around the chest tube.  (FAC ¶¶30-31). 

 
The paramedics transported Decedent to Henry Mayo’s Emergency
Department for treatment. (FAC ¶33).  At
the time of admission, Decedent was conscious and able to explain his situation
to medical providers.  (FAC ¶34).  Defendant Steven Schafer, M.D. (Dr. Schafer)
was responsible for Decedent’s medical care.  (FAC ¶35). 
Decedent was diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion, which is a
collection of fluid between the chest wall and lungs.  (FAC ¶36). 

 
A needle biopsy of fluid in Decedent’s chest was taken
which disclosed dark clotted blood.  (FAC
¶37).  There were signs of a significant
blood loss.  (FAC ¶¶38-39).  A chest CT showed bilateral pleural
effusions.  (FAC ¶40).  Defendant Richard Goldman, M.D. (Dr. Goldman),
a radiologist believed to be a member of Defendant Tower Imaging Medical Group
and/or Defendant Tower Imaging Medical Associates, Inc., reviewed the results
of the CT scan.  However, Dr. Goldman did
not immediately inform others of the results.  (FAC ¶¶42-43). 
Decedent went into medical distress and an emergency thoracotomy was
performed, which disclosed a large hematoma.  Health care providers then found Decedent had
a flaccid heart, deflated and without motion, consistent with exsanguination.  Decedent died shortly thereafter.  (FAC ¶¶44-47). 

 
On 3/30/23, Plaintiffs filed this action against
Defendants for: (1) Health Care Provider Negligence
Leading to Death Per Civil Code 3333.1/Professional Negligence and (2)
Survivorship.  After meet and confer
efforts failed to resolve the issues, Henry Mayo had with the complaint, on
10/25/23, Henry Mayo filed and served a demurrer to the entire complaint.  Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the
demurrer and Henry Mayo filed a reply to the opposition.  On 4/2/24, the Court sustained Henry Mayo’s
demurrer to the entire original complaint with 20 days leave to amend.  (See 4/2/24 Minute Order).
 
On 4/16/24, Plaintiffs filed the subject First Amended
Complaint (FAC) alleging the same two causes of action as the original
complaint.  After meet and confer efforts
failed to resolve the issues Henry Mayo had with the First Amended Complaint,
on 5/9/24, Henry Mayo filed and served the instant demurrer to the entire First
Amended Complaint.  On 5/23/24, pursuant
to Plaintiffs’ request, Dr. Goldman; Tower Imaging Medical Associates, Inc. and
Tower Imaging Medical Group were dismissed with prejudice from the action.  On 6/5/24, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to
the demurrer and on 6/14/24, Henry Mayo filed a reply to the opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1st cause of action - Health Care Provider
Negligence Leading to Death Per Civil Code 3333.1/Professional Negligence    
    
The elements of a medical malpractice cause of action
are: (1) duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence ass other members of
the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3)
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and
(4) resulting loss or damage.  Lattimore
(2015) 239 CA4th 959, 968.
 
Plaintiffs 1st cause of action contains 6
counts against Henry Mayo: (1) Liability for Negligent Care, (2) Duty to Ensure
Competence of Medical Staff, (3) Liability for Negligence of Employees, (4)
Liability of Agents or Ostensible Agents, (5) Hospital Liability for Negligent
Acts of Independent Contractors and (6) Corporate Negligence.  
 
            Count
1: Liability for Negligent Care
 
Plaintiffs merely conclude that Henry Mayo breached its
duty to use reasonable care in caring for Decedent.  (FAC ¶68). 
The only factual allegation against Henry Mayo is that it “failed to have
accurate records of Decedent’s treatment, in violation of California law.”  (FAC ¶50). 
However, no facts are alleged as to how Decedent’s medical records were
not accurate or how such inaccuracy caused harm to Decedent.  Nor have Plaintiffs pled any facts regarding
how Henry Mayo allegedly failed to ensure the competence of its staff.  
 
            Count
2: Duty to Ensure Competence of Medical Staff
 
Plaintiffs rely on California Code of Regulations, Title
22, Division 5, Sections 70217 and 70213 to support this count.  
 
Section 70217, “Nursing Staff Service,” provides, in
relevant part: “"(a) Hospitals shall provide staffing by licensed nurses,
within the scope of their licensure in accordance with the following
nurse-to-patient ratios.”  Plaintiff have
not alleged that Henry Mayo was not properly staffed in the departments where Decedent
was treated, or that Decedent was injured as the result of inadequate staffing
of nurses.
 
Section 70213, “Nursing Service Policies and Procedures,”
requires the implementation of written policies and procedures for nursing
staff.  Here, Plaintiffs do not allege
any facts regarding a failure on the part of Henry Mayo to have or to implement
such policies and procedures, or any harm suffered by Decedent as a result of
any such failure.    
 
In this count, Plaintiffs seemingly seek to hold Henry
Mayo liable for the care and treatment rendered to Decedent by Dr.
Schaefer.  (See FAC ¶¶74-75).  Generally, there is no agency relationship
between a hospital and its staff physicians. 
See Marmion (1983) 145 CA3d 72, 85-86.  However, a hospital, such as Henry Mayo, can
be held liable for negligence where its “failure to ensure the competence of
its medical staff through careful selection and review creates an unreasonable
risk of harm to its patients.”  Elam
(1982) 132 CA3d 332, 341, 346.
 
Plaintiffs plead no facts to establish that Henry Mayo
was negligent in granting staff privileges to Dr. Schaefer.  As such, Plaintiffs have failed to
sufficiently allege any direct or vicarious liability on the part of Henry Mayo
for any negligence allegedly committed by Dr. Schaefer in the care and
treatment of Decedent.  
 
            Count
3: Negligence of Employees
 
In this count, Plaintiffs seek to hold Henry Mayo
vicariously liable on a respondeat superior theory for the alleged negligence
of its staff which appears to be the same basis of liability as Count 1.  
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention of an employee, which Plaintiffs seem to be alleging
here, are: (1) the employer hired the employee, (2) the employee was/became
unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which he/she was hired, (3) the
employer knew or should have known the employee was/became unfit or
incompetent, (4) employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed plaintiff; and (5)
employer’s negligence in hiring/supervising/retaining the employee was a substantial
factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm. 
CACI 426.  
 
Plaintiffs have failed to plead any facts regarding the
alleged negligence of any hospital employee, that Henry Mayo had knowledge of
any unfitness or incompetence of any of its employees, and/or that any
unfitness and/or incompetence of any Henry Mayo employee was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiffs’ harm.  
 
            Count
4: Liability of Agents or Ostensible Agents  
 
With regard to alleged agent liability, the claim seems
redundant of Counts 1-3.  
 
To hold Henry Mayo liable for the negligence of a
physician under a theory of ostensible agency, two elements must be alleged:
(1) conduct by the hospital that would cause a reasonable person to believe
that the physician was an agent of the hospital and (2) reliance on that
apparent agency relationship by the plaintiff. 
Markow (2016) 3 CA5th 1027, 1038. 
The first element is usually satisfied when a hospital holds itself out
to the public as a provider of care, unless it gave the patient contrary notice.  Id. 
As to the second element, reliance upon an apparent agency is shown when
a plaintiff looks to the hospital for services, rather than to an individual
physician.  Id.
 
Here, insufficient facts are alleged regarding whether or
not Decedent, who is alleged to have been “conscious and able to explain his
situation to medical providers” when he arrived at Henry Mayo, was given notice
that the physicians who would be treating him were not employees or agents of
Henry Mayo.  (See FAC ¶34); Contrast
Whitlow (2015) 237 CA4th 631, 633-634 (patient was crying in horrible
pain and nauseous and unable to read admission form at the time it was
signed).  
 
            Count
5: Hospital Liability for Negligent Acts of Independent Contractors 
 
This count is based on California Code of Regulations,
Title 22, Division 5, Section 70713 which provides:
 
"If a hospital does not employ
a qualified professional person to render a specific service to be provided by
the hospital, there shall be arrangements for such a service through a written
agreement with an outside resource--which meets the standards and requirements
of these regulations. The responsibilities, functions, objectives and terms of
agreement, including financial arrangements and charges of each such outside
resource, shall be delineated in writing and signed by an authorized
representative of the hospital and the person or the agency providing the
service. The agreement shall specify that the hospital retains professional and
administrative responsibility for the services rendered. The outside resource,
when acting as a consultant, shall apprise the administrator of
recommendations, plans for implementation and continuing assessment through
dated and signed reports which shall be retained by the administrator for
follow-up action and evaluation of performance."
 
Plaintiffs cite no authority which provides that this
section, titled “Use of Outside Resources,” applies to staff physicians at a
hospital.  The Court agrees with Henry
Mayo’s assessment that a finding that this regulation makes hospitals
vicariously liable for the negligence of staff physicians would be an
unprecedented expansion of hospital liability. 
As noted above, under Elam, supra, a hospital may be held
liable for its failure to exercise due care in selecting qualified physicians,
not vicariously for all negligence of physicians.    
 
            Count
6: Corporate Negligence
 
Based on the opposition, it appears that Plaintiffs also
bring their 6th count under Elam, supra.  As noted above, Plaintiffs fail to allege
facts to establish that Henry Mayo can be held liable under an Elam
theory (i.e., no facts that Henry Mayo knew or should have         known of facts which should have
resulted in a restriction or rescinding of any specific physician’s privileges
at the hospital).  
 
2nd cause of action – Survival
 
The 2nd cause of action is based on the same
facts as the 1st cause of action and fails for the same reasons.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is sustained.  Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave
to amend, Plaintiffs are given another opportunity to try to cure the defects
in their pleading.  A Second Amended
Complaint is due within 20 days.  