  Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON RENEWED MOTION TO DISMISS COMPLAINT UNDER THE FIVE-YEAR STATUTE
 
Consumer Advocacy
Group v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date:
February 21, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
          By this motion, Defendants Gel Spice
Co., Big Lots Stores, Grocery Outlet and Target Corp. (“Defendants”) seek again
to dismiss this case based on alleged avoidable delay by plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group (“CAG”). As set forth below, however, the Court has already
rejected this claim. Judge Beaudet found she was not able to try this case. CAG
had no control over this issue. This Court may not now reconsider that ruling
merely because the Court was not able to specify exactly the length of time the
statute would be tolled. Later developments also do not support
reconsideration. 
 
STATEMENT OF FACTS RELEVANT
TO MOTION 
 
          On June 20, 2017, CAG filed a
complaint in this case. This case was previously assigned to the Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet. 
          On November 9, 2022, Judge Beaudet
heard an ex parte application of CAG to have further time to conduct
certain depositions (to know what to put on the witness and exhibit lists due
the following day). CAG did not seek to continue trial then set for December 7,
2022. The Court vacated the trial date based on its backlogged calendar due to
COVID and intent to transfer this case to a long cause department for trial.  
          On January 26, 2023, Judge Beaudet
heard Defendants’ motion to dismiss based on the five-year statute. The Court
denied the motion, finding that there the statute was tolled where it was
impossible to bring the matter to trial within that time. The Court stated that
the tolling extended from when she was unavailable until the long cause package
was filed – whenever that would be. Further, Judge Beaudet found CAG was
prepared to bring the case to trial, and that there was not much left to do.
          On March 20, 2023, Judge Beaudet
confirmed that she herself would not be trying the case and ordered CAG to
submit by March 22, 2023 a long-cause package for consideration by Dept. 1. 
          On April 11, June 6 and August 28, 2023,
Supervising Judge Michelle Williams Court, sitting in Dept. 1, determined that
the case was not ready to be assigned to a long-cause department for trial in
view of the pendency of discovery motions before Judge Beaudet. 
         On October 6, 2023, Judge Beaudet
denied the discovery motions as moot.  
         On October 27, 2023, Judge Beaudet
notified the parties the cause was accepted as long cause for trial by another judge.

         On October 31, 2023, this case was
assigned to the undersigned for trial. 
         On November 22, 2023, this Court held
a status conference. The parties agreed that if the five-year statute had not
already expired that the statute was tolled from November 22, 2023 to April 15,
2024 when was the soonest the Court was able to schedule this case for trial
consistent with readiness and preparation and availability of this Court. The
Court indicated that the parties should meet and confer as to any agreement
concerning the period of tolling and that absent agreement Defendants could file
a motion concerning same. 
          On January 12, 2024, Defendants filed
this motion, together with a supporting Declaration of counsel and Request for
Judicial Notice. 
         On January 26, 2024, CAG filed
opposition to the motion, together with a supporting Declaration of counsel and
Request for Judicial Notice. 
        
On February 13, 2024, Defendants filed a Reply, together with a further
declaration and objections to the evidence submitted by CAG. 
 
PARTIES’ CONTENTIONS 
 
          Defendants argue that this case is
subject to mandatory dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) secs.
583.310 and 583.360 in view of the five years (and the extension of six months allowed
under Emergency Rule 10(a)) to bring the action to trial having elapsed on December
20, 2022. They contend the tolling exception where bringing the action to trial
is “impossible, impracticable or futile” under CCP sec. 583.340(c) is not
applicable here where any tolling could not have been indefinite. They argue
essentially that Judge Beaudet’s statement on November 9, 2022 that she was
unavailable to conduct the trial and that the case would be assigned to a long
cause judge did not serve to toll the statute (in making it impossible to go to
trial) because the Court did not define when tolling started or ended.  
          CAG argues this renewed motion is an
impermissible and untimely motion for reconsideration under CCP sec. 1008 where
it was filed more than ten days after the relevant ruling of Judge Beaudet (either
November 9, 2022 or January 26, 2023) and does not offer any new or different facts,
circumstances or law. On the merits, they argue that it was impossible to bring
this case to trial from November 9, 2022 to October 27, 2023 (when the case was
accepted as long cause) warranting tolling during this time, as allowed under Tamburina
v. Combined Ins. Co. (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 323, 328. In
addition, when coupled with the stipulation to toll from November 22, 2023 to
April 15, 2024, this would mean that the statute would not expire until after
the current trial date of April 15, 2024. Alternatively, CAG argues that the
statute should be tolled from the earlier trial date of December 7, 2022
through the new date, April 15, 2024, which again would extend the time to
bring the matter to trial even further after April 15, 2024, citing Chin v.
Meier (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1473, 1475.
          In their Reply, Defendants argue that
this is not an untimely motion for reconsideration because it raises new facts
and circumstances that Judge Beaudet did not address; namely, first, the specific
dates of any permissible tolling, and second, what has occurred with
prosecution of this case since the Court denied the earlier motion to dismiss. On
the first point, Defendants argue that the start date for any tolling would be December
7, 2022 (when the case was previously set for trial) and the end date would be April
11, 2023 when Dept. 1 ruled that the case was not ready to be transferred to a
long-cause trial courtroom. On the second point, Defendants accuse CAG of
“active malingering” in bringing this case to trial, pointing to the subsequent
filing of discovery motions and seeking to relate this case with other cases. For
these reasons, they argue the case is subject to mandatory dismissal.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court grants the requests for
judicial notice and has ruled separately on the evidentiary objections on the
form provided. 
 
          A motion for reconsideration under
CCP sec. 1008(a) is required to be heard by the judge who heard the earlier
motion (unless that judge is “unavailable”) within ten days of notice of entry
of the order in question. This motion was not filed within ten days of notice
of entry of the order of January 23, 2023. Defendants have also not shown Judge
Beaudet is “unavailable,” even if she is not now assigned to hear the trial of
this case. Indeed, she continues to sit in the department to which this case
was previously assigned. To the extent this renewed motion is one under CCP sec.
1008(a), therefore, it is untimely and denied (regardless of that it is brought
before the wrong bench officer.) 
          By contrast, a motion for
reconsideration under CCP sec. 1008(b), based upon “new facts, circumstances or
law,” does not have to be heard by the judge who issued the earlier order nor be
filed within ten days. Therefore, to the extent that the motion is brought on
this basis it is timely. 
           As discussed below, the
above-referenced distinction is significant here as the motion only in part
rests on “new facts, circumstances or law.”
          The primary basis for this motion is that
Judge Beaudet’s inability to try this case was not the cause of its not being
heard within the statutory deadline. Rather, it is that CAG was not ready to
try the case (and had not exercised reasonable diligence in prosecuting the
action) regardless of the backlog of cases in Judge Beaudet’s courtroom. However,
these are issues that were in part before Judge Beaudet previously and could
have been a basis for which she might have granted the motion. Instead, Judge
Beaudet rejected those claims in denying the motion, finding that CAG was
prepared to bring the case to trial. Defendants may therefore not now
permissibly raise again at least CAG’s readiness to proceed to trial as of
January 26, 2023.[1]

          Moreover, as CAG notes, while it
sought an extension to conduct depositions, the ex parte application did
not seek a continuance of the December 7, 2022 trial date. Judge Beaudet herself
raised the issue of her unavailability to try the case on that date or
thereafter and advised the parties of her intent that this case be instead
assigned to a judge who hears long cause trials. Hence, where there was already
a trial date before the 5-year statute elapsed, this case is not like De
Santiago v. D & G Plumbing (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 365 where
the court refused to toll the statute because of court congestion where there
was no request for a trial date before expiration of the statute.
          As far as events after denial of the
dismissal motion, these are for the most part matters that were raised for the
first time in by Defendants in their reply and hence are improper in not giving
CAG an opportunity to respond thereto. However, to avoid delay, the Court
nonetheless addresses: They still do not provide a basis to reconsider Judge
Beaudet’s ruling: 
          First, Judge Court did not find that the
case was not ready for trial. Rather, she found that the case was not ready for
transfer to a long cause courtroom for trial because there were discovery
motions still scheduled for hearing before Judge Beaudet. There was no finding
that CAG had not taken some action it should have to be ready that was thereby
unreasonably delaying going to trial. While Judge Beaudet later apparently
denied those motions as moot, the Court cannot determine whether their filing
was improper in wrongfully delaying trial (even if seemingly inconsistent with
CAG stating it was ready for trial.) 
          Second, and likewise, that CAG sought
on multiple occasions to relate this case to fifteen other cases does not
necessarily show that CAG was guilty of “active malingering.” Though it appears
the Court denied the request to relate cases,[2]
this Court has not been given the reasons it did so or sufficient evidence that
the attempt for it to do so was in bad faith. Indeed, to the contrary, Defendants
have separately requested the Court take judicial notice of decisions reached
in certain of those other cases as relevant to or even identical to decisions
to be made by the Court in this case. This would suggest there was some basis
for CAG to seek to relate cases, i.e., avoiding multiple trials over similar
issues.  
          In sum, these later developments do
not demonstrate sufficient basis to reconsider Judge Beaudet having concluded
that CAG was trial ready for purposes of denying the motion to dismiss. There
is evidence of a “causal connection between that circumstance [impossibility] and
failing to move the case to trial,” in the Court having to locate a different
courtroom, as well as that CAG was “reasonably diligent” in its handling of
this matter - as required by Tamburina, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at 328.   
            Further, this motion implicitly (and
improperly) disputes Judge Beaudet’s finding concerning impossibility. Defendants
argue that the Court could have handled its calendar differently by keeping
trial in this case on calendar along with other cases the Court was scheduled
to try, as is common or “ordinary,” citing Gaines v. Fidelity Nat’l. Title
Ins. Co. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1081, 1101 (holding that “time
consumed by the delay caused by ordinary incidents  of proceedings, like…the normal time of waiting
for a place on the court’s calendar are not within the contemplation of those
exceptions.”) It should be, however, with little controversy that there were
backlogs caused by COVID and that COVID was not an “ordinary” situation. Moreover,
unlike in Oswald v. Landmark Builders (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th
240 (where the Court found the unavailability of a courtroom was an
insufficient basis to deny a motion to dismiss), and on which Defendants rely,
Judge Beaudet found here CAG was ready enough to proceed to trial and did not
just rely on the unavailability of her courtroom to try the case. 
          In any event, this judge cannot
second guess how another judge manages her own independent calendar courtroom nor
now find that she could have handled it differently by stacking cases for trial
on the same day. This Court does not know what other cases Judge Beaudet also
had to then try, nor what reasons she presumably had for advising counsel that
she would continue to be unavailable and hence why the case was better off
assigned to a long cause courtroom (notwithstanding the considerable work Judge
Beaudet had already put into this difficult case.)[3] Judge
Beaudet did say, however, that there were other cases that she had to try which
had priority over this case. She would likely have known that certain of these cases
were likely to proceed even if more than one was scheduled on the same day. For
these reasons, this bench officer cannot now reconsider her finding that it was
impossible to bring this case to trial. 
          Moreover, though it is also true that
tolling would not necessarily have no start nor end date, as this Court
indicated previously at a status conference on November 9, 2023, here the Court
finds that impliedly Judge Beaudet ruled that tolling began when she first stated
she was unable to try the case and would end when the matter was assigned to a
long cause judge. Hence, the commencement of tolling would be on November 9,
2022 when she stated she was unable to try this case and termination of tolling
would be on October 27, 2023 when the Supervising Judge in Dept. 1 accepted the
case as long cause based on the proper submission of a long cause package and
no other pre-trial matters remaining pending in the original courtroom. (The case
was subsequently assigned to this courtroom on October 31, 2023.) See Sierra-Nev.
Memorial Miners Hospital v. Sup. Court (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 464, 472 (requiring
that any tolling be attributable to unavoidable delay in prosecution of
litigation) 
          Though Defendants argue the start
date would not be until the then scheduled trial date of December 7, 2022, the
Court sees no logic in delaying the start of her “unavailability” to when trial
was then scheduled when Judge Beaudet had already determined that she was
“unavailable.” In turn, Defendants take issue with Judge Beaudet not have
specified a termination date. However, Judge Beaudet would not have known at
the time the motion to dismiss was heard when that package would be submitted,
or when Dept. 1 would accept the case, and therefore could not have then provided
an exact end date of the tolling. 
          For these reasons, the Court does not
find Judge Beaudet not having expressly stated a commencement or termination of
tolling provides a basis to reconsider her denial of the motion.[4] 
          Finally, even if Judge Beaudet not
having specified exactly the duration of the tolling was a basis for
reconsideration, it would not change the decision: This Court finds the
applicable tolling during which it was impossible for CAG to bring this action
to trial to be from November 9, 2022 (when Judge Beaudet announced she was
unavailable to try this case) to October 27, 2023 (when Dept. 1 took over handling
of the case for reassignment to another judge). Hence, as of November 9, 2022,
there were forty-two days remaining before the statutory deadline on December
20, 2022. In turn, as of the termination of the tolling on October 27, 2023,
CAG then had forty-two days to start trial.[5] Twenty-six
days elapsed between October 27, 2023 through November 22, 2023 when the
parties stipulated to further toll the statute from November 22, 2023 to April
15, 2024. Therefore, as of April 15, 2024 (the date trial is scheduled to
commence), there will remain sixteen days before this case is subject to mandatory
dismissal.[6] 
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these reasons,  consistent with the policy of favoring trial
on the merits (see Sanchez v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 1262, 1270), the Court denies the motion. 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


