  Case Number:  22STCV08315    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV08315




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Beverly Hills




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Dani Robin Lancer



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.      Declaration of Alexander Y. Kim
4.      Declaration of Robert Sahagun
5.      Declaration of Carla Smith
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed and
Additional Undisputed Material Facts 
3.      Declaration of Dani Robin Lancer 
4.      Declaration of John G. Jahrmarkt
 
REPLY PAPERS
 
1.      Defendant’s Reply
2.      Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement 
3.      Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of Dani
Robin Lancer
4.      Evidentiary Objections to Declaration of John
G. Jahrmarkt
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 19, 2022,
Plaintiff Dani Robin Lancer (“Plaintiff”)
filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants City of Los
Angeles, City of Beverly Hills, and Does 1 to 10 for dangerous condition of
public property under Government Code section 835. Plaintiff alleges that on
September 23, 2020, she tripped and fell on an uneven lip of sidewalk. (FAC ¶
5.)
 
Defendant City of Beverly
Hills (Defendant) now moves for summary
judgment arguing there is no evidence that a dangerous condition existed and
that it had no notice of the alleged condition. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)  As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential
element, or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court overrules Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s Declaration.
The Court declines to rule on Defendant’s objections to the Declaration of John
G. Jahrmarkt as they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
A.    
Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
Government Code section 815 provides that “[a] public entity is not
liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of
the public entity or a public employee or any other person” except as provided
by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified
School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) “[D]irect tort liability of
public entities must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be
liable, or at least creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general
tort provisions of Civil Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of
immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the routine application
of general tort principles.” (Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)
 
Government Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under
which a public entity is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of
public property. (Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th
1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th
820, 829; see also Zelig v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th
1112.) A dangerous condition is “a condition of property that creates a
substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of
injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a
manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.”  (Gov. Code § 830(a).)  
 
To establish a claim of dangerous condition on public property, a
plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant owned or controlled the property;
(2) that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury;
(3) that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the
kind of injury that occurred; (4) that defendant had notice of the dangerous
condition for a long enough time to have protected against it; (5) that
plaintiff was harmed; and (6) that the dangerous condition was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (Gov. Code, § 835; CACI No.
1100.)  Consequently, a public entity is
only liable for a dangerous condition of property if it either creates the
condition or has actual or constructive notice of the condition.  (Gov Code §835(b).) 
 
1.      The
Trivial Defect Doctrine
 
“Property owners are required to
maintain land in their possession and control in a reasonably safe condition and
to use due care to eliminate dangerous conditions on their property.  But a property owner is not liable for
damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant defect on its property.  The so-called ‘trivial defect doctrine’
recognizes that persons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are
not required to maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.  The duty of care imposed on a property owner,
even one with actual notice, does not require the repair of minor defects.”  (Fajardo v. Dailey (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 221, 226 [cleaned up].) 
 
“In limited circumstances a court
may determine a walkway defect is trivial as a matter
of law.  Where reasonable minds can
reach only one conclusion—that there was no substantial risk of injury—the
issue is a question of law, properly resolved by way of summary judgment.  But where sufficient evidence has been
presented so that reasonable minds may differ as to whether the defect is
dangerous, summary judgment is inappropriate.”  (Id. at p. 226.)  
 

California courts have developed
two substantially similar tests to determine whether a sidewalk defect is
trivial, i.e., not dangerous, as a matter of law.  In Stathoulis v. City of Montebello (2008)
164 Cal.App.4th 559, 567-68, the Court of Appeal set out a two part test.
“First, the court reviews evidence regarding the type and size of the
defect.  If that preliminary analysis
reveals a trivial defect, the court considers evidence of any additional
factors such as the weather, lighting and visibility conditions at the time of
the accident, the existence of debris or obstructions, and plaintiff’s
knowledge of the area.  If these
additional factors do not indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a
reasonably careful person, the court should deem the defect trivial as a matter
of law ....” (See also Nunez v. City of Redondo Beach (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 749, 758 [adopting two-step framework]; Huckey v. City of
Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105 [same].)
 
More recently, in Stack v. City
of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110, the Court of Appeal read
Government Code section 830.2 to require a more “holistic” approach, stating,
“[a]lthough we agree with the premise that the size of the defect is the
primary determinant of triviality, as discussed below, we modify the prevailing
two-step framework into a holistic, multi-factor analysis.”  
 
            “We begin with the most important
factor: the defect’s size.” (Stack, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 110 [cleaned
up].)  “Sidewalk elevations ranging from
three-quarters of an inch to one and one-half inches have generally been held
trivial as a matter of law.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1107; see Stathoulis, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at p. 568 [“Several
decisions have found height differentials of up to one and one-half inches
trivial as a matter of law.”]) “That said, there is no firmly fixed arbitrary
measurement in inches below which a defect is trivial as a matter of law and
above which it becomes a question of fact whether or not the defect is
dangerous.  This is because a court
should not rely solely upon the size of the defect ...
although the defect’s size ‘may be one of the most relevant factors’ to the
court’s decision.”  (Id. at pp.
112–113 [cleaned up].) 
 
The Court next considers
additional factors.  “Beyond size,
additional factors courts typically consider in assessing a sidewalk condition’s
triviality as a matter of law are: the nature and quality of the defect
(including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks); whether anything was
obstructing or concealing the defect (for instance, an object, debris, or other
substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the time of the incident;
whether the defect has caused other accidents; and plaintiff's familiarity with
the area.”  (Stack, supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at p. 115.)  With respect
to the various foregoing factors, Stack held that “individual
familiarity is not a proper factor for consideration within the trivial defect
doctrine.” (Id. at p. 120.)
 
Here, Defendant sets forth the
following relevant facts: 
 
-         
As Plaintiff was walking along Sunset Boulevard
approaching Foothill Road, Plaintiff’s right foot struck the lip of the
sidewalk at or around 9529 Sunset Boulevard, causing her to fall. (UMF 2.) 
-         
After her fall, Plaintiff and Ms. Campbell were both
clearly able to observe the condition as there were absolutely no visual
obstructions to the subject condition. (UMF 3.) 
 
The parties have provided photographic evidence that appears
to depict an uplift at its highest point of approximately one inch and a half
or less. (Kim Decl., Exh. E; Sahagun Decl. ¶ 18-20; Lancer Decl., Exh. A.) Although
the parties dispute where Plaintiff fell, the photographs do not depict an
uplift in excess of 1.5 inches at any point, contrary to Plaintiff’s argument.
(PUMF 4.) Plaintiff does not explain her calculation of the uplift. Plaintiff
also does not dispute that she was clearly able to observe the condition as
there was “absolutely no visual obstructions to the subject condition.” (UMF
3.) The Court further considers the nature and quality of the defect, which has
no jagged breaks or cracks. Plaintiff’s deposition testimony reveals that the
incident took place around 10:00 a.m. on a sunny day. (Kim Decl., Exh. B, Pl.
Depo., 16:7–15.)  Viewing the evidence in
the light most favorable to Plaintiff, including all reasonable inferences, the
Court finds no triable issue of material fact and concludes that the defect is
trivial as a matter of law. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant City
of Beverly Hills’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file
and serve a proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 