  Case Number:  23CHCV00053    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-16-24
Case
# 23CHCV00053, Delgado v. General Motors, LLC
Trial
Date: 09-02-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Roberto Delgado
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
compelling code-compliant responses to Requests for Production, Set One,
numbers 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 27, and 28, and all corresponding responsive
documents.
 
RULING: Motion is granted,
pursuant to the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery Order.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
This
action arises from Plaintiff Roberto Delgado’s (Plaintiff) purchase of an
allegedly defective 2021 Chevrolet Silverado 1500.  On January 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant) for violations of the
Song-Beverly Act.  
 
On
October 17, 2023, Plaintiff propounded Requests for Production, Set One, on
Defendant.  Defendant served its
unverified responses on November 20, 2023. 
Verification was received on January 9, 2024.  Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s initial
responses were deficient, filled with improper boilerplate objections, and that
Defendant refused to produce corresponding documents.  
 
On
January 31, 2024,  Plaintiff filed this
motion to compel further responses to requests numbers 7, 8, 10-14, 21-24, and
27-30.  
 
On
June 17, 2024, the parties met and conferred via videoconference.  After meeting and conferring, the parties
filed a joint stipulation on July 18, 2024, which indicated that Defendant
agreed to produce verified supplemental responses to requests numbers 7, 8, 21,
22, 23, and 24, along with corresponding responsive documents within 45 days of
date of the stipulation.  The parties
were still at an impasse for requests numbers 10-14 and 27-30.  
 
On
October 3, 2024, the Court continued the hearing for this motion, ordered the
parties to review the Court’s Lemon Law discovery order, to meet and confer
within 30 days, and to file a joint statement of remaining issues.  
 
The
parties filed their joint statement on November 25, 2024.  The statement addresses requests 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 27, and 28.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
Where
responses to requests for production of documents have been served but the
demanding party believes that they are deficient because the statement of
compliance is incomplete, the representation of an inability to comply is
inadequate, evasive, or incomplete, or, because an objection is without merit,
that party may move for an order compelling a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The
demanding party must serve the motion within 45 days after service of verified
responses in question, or any verified supplemental responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(c).)  
            
RFP No. 10 – All internal
analysis(es) or investigation(s) by YOU or on YOUR behalf, including
electronically stored information and electronic mails, regarding the
SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE. [This request shall be interpreted to include any investigations to
determine the root cause of such SUSPENSION DEFECT, any such investigation to
design a permanent repair procedure for such SUSPENSION DEFECT, any such
investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with such SUSPENSION
DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing a proposed repair procedure(s), any
savings analysis not implementing a proposed repair procedure(s), etc.]
 
RFP No. 11 – All DOCUMENTS,
including electronically stored information and electronic mails, relied on by
YOU or on YOUR behalf to issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty
extensions, technical service bulletins and recalls concerning the SUSPENSION
DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
RFP No. 12 – All customer
complaints, claims, reported failures, and warranty claims, including
electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning the
SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.
 
RFP No. 13 – All failure
rates (or failure rate data), including electronically stored information and
electronic mails, of vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE as a result of the SUSPENSION DEFECT.
 
RFP No. 14 – All DOCUMENTS,
including electronically stored information and electronic mails, constituting
any fixes for the SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
RFP No. 27 – All
communications, including electronically stored information and electronic
mails, between YOU and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
(“NHTSA”) regarding the SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make,
and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
RFP No. 28 – All NHTSA
complaints, including electronically stored information and electronic mails,
in YOUR possession regarding the SUSPENSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
Plaintiff
argues that the requested documents show that after several repair attempts,
Plaintiff’s Chevrolet Silverado did not conform to warranty, Defendant was
aware of the alleged defect and failure to repair, and Defendant’s failure to
replace or repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle was willful.  Plaintiff presented his vehicle to an
authorized repair facility complaining of issues related to the alleged
Suspension Defect.  Defendant published
at least five Technical Service Bulletins (TSBs) acknowledging the alleged
Suspension Defect and prescribing repairs for the defect.  Internal investigations and analyses showing
that a repair procedure is likely to fail is relevant to show Defendant was
aware Plaintiff’s vehicle did not conform to the warranty.  Finally, Defendant should be able to produce
the requested documents because Defendant is required to provide the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHSTA) with the following: (1) safety
defect and noncompliance reporting; (2) early warning reporting; (3) foreign
recall reporting; and (4) service bulletins and other customer communications.  
 
In
opposition, Defendant objects to the requests as overbroad, vague, and
ambiguous.  The requests are burdensome
and oppressive because compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive
in relation to the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the issues
at stake in the litigation.  Whether
Plaintiff is entitled to Song-Beverly relief is unrelated to the scope and
breadth of these requests.  The requests
also seek confidential information protected by attorney-client privilege and
the work product doctrine.  Defendant has
already provided Plaintiff with a list of TSBs and Information Service
Bulletins (ISBs) for vehicles of the same make, model, and year as Plaintiff’s
2021 Chevrolet Silverado.  Finally,
Defendant offered to search for and produce, if located, copies of a reasonable
number of TSBs and ISBs that Plaintiff identifies as relevant to the conditions
alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
TSBs
are relevant to disclose warranty data for specific vehicle models and to show
what tools and information a manufacturer issued to its authorized repair
facilities to fix a defect or nonconformities.  (See Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 587, 606-607.)  And while
customers can usually access TSBs directly from the manufacturer, J.D. Power,
or Consumer Reports, manufacturers rarely disclose the information it
gathers and uses during repair development and from tracking warranty repairs.  (Ibid.)  In Bower v. Ford Motor Company, the
Court of Appeal affirmed the admission of internal emails and documents showing
a manufacturer was aware of engine issues in consumers’ vehicles and that the
manufacturer struggled to find the root cause of the issue. (Id. at p. 614-616
[admitting these documents into evidence because the authors of these documents
and emails were employees tasked with warranty issues].)  Although the Court of Appeal did not admit
some of the internal emails and documents that supported the requested TSBs due
to lack of foundation, the Court did not do so on grounds of irrelevance.  (Id. at pp. 616-617; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 2017.010 [noting the scope of discovery is admissible evidence or
items which will lead to admissible evidence].) 
 
The
Court has reviewed the parties’ joint statement and related documents, strikes
Defendant’s objections, and grants Plaintiff’s request.  The Court notes that Defendant states it has
already provided Plaintiff with a list of TSBs and ISBs and has offered to
search for and produce copies of the ISBs and TSBs Plaintiff has identified as
relevant.  However, without referencing
further legal support or specific documents it has already produced, the Court
cannot uphold Defendant’s objections.  Defendant’s
responses and production of documents is limited to the information set out in
Section 2, categories (h), (i), and (j) of the Court’s Lemon Law Discovery
Order and to vehicles of the same make, model, and year as Plaintiff’s 2021
Chevrolet Silverado.  
 
 
CONCLUSION
The motion is granted, pursuant to the Court’s Lemon
Law Discovery Order.  
 
ORDER
The Court orders Defendant General
Motors, LLC to provide objection-free, code-compliant further responses and to
produce responsive documents to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One,
numbers 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 27, and 28.
 
1. 
Defendant is ordered to serve responses and produce responsive documents
within forty-five (45) days of the date of this order.  
 
2. 
Defendant’s responses and responsive documents are limited to the scope
set forth in Section 2, categories (h), (i), and (j) of the Court’s Lemon Law
Discovery Order.   
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.