 Case Number:  22STCV20415    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Motions to Compel Further Discovery
Tentative
The motions
are CONTINUED
Background
This case arises out of a vehicle accident that occurred on
June 28, 2021, on the I-5 Freeway near Gene Autry Way.  Plaintiff Bryant Mangum, III (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that Defendant Jesus Jose Heredia, Jr. (“Heredia”) drove negligently
and caused the accident, resulting in injuries to Plaintiff.  In the Complaint, filed on June 22, 2022,
Plaintiff asserts causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence against Heredia and Does 1 through 50.  On July 15, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
Complaint to name Red 1 Express Inc. as Doe 1.
On January 26, 2023, Defendants Heredia and Red 1 Express Inc.
(collectively, “Defendants”) filed their answer.
On September 19 and 20, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’
motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special
Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production (Set One).  
Currently before the Court are two discovery motions filed by
Plaintiff on November 28, 2023.  In these
motions, Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant Red 1 Express, Inc. (“Defendant”)
to provide further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Two) and Requests
for Production (Set Two).  Plaintiff also
seeks sanctions.   
Defendant filed oppositions (each labelled as an “objection”)
on December 19.  Defendant seeks
sanctions.
Plaintiff did not file any reply.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
As a threshold matter, Defendant argues that the motions are
untimely, that there was no good faith meet-and-confer, and that there was no
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).
As to the last point, there has been no IDC on
these two motions to compel further discovery responses.  As set forth in the Eighth Amended Standing
order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts (at page 7), “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).”
Accordingly, the hearing on these motions is
continued for approximately 75 days so that an IDC may be scheduled and
completed.
The Court expresses no views on the merits of the
discovery dispute.
The Court does note its TENTATIVE view, however,
that the motions are timely.  The
discovery responses at issue were served by email on October 10, 2023.  (Jafari Decls., ¶ 4 & Exhs. B.)  Forty-five days later was Friday, November 24
(which was a court holiday).  The responses
were served electronically, and so the time to file a motion to compel was
extended by two court days.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).  Thus, the last
day to file the motions was two court days later, or on Tuesday, November 28 –
the day that the motions were filed.
Conclusion
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on these two
motions for approximately 75 days so that an IDC may be scheduled and
completed.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 