 Case Number:  21STCV33079    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Mental and Additional Physical Examinations of
Plaintiff filed by Defendant Mauricio Ocampo. 
 
Tentative
 
The Court DENIES AS MOOT Defendant
Ocampo’s request for an order compelling additional physical examinations.
 
The Court
GRANTS Defendant Ocampo’s request for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit
to a mental examination by J. Vincent Filoteo, Ph.D., subject to the conditions
set forth below.
 
Background 
 
On September
8, 2021, Plaintiff Angelica Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this
action against Defendants Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Mauricio Ocampo (“Ocampo”), and
Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action for negligence and negligence per
se.  The Complaint alleges that on
September 27, 2019, Defendant Ocampo, while employed by Defendant Lyft, Inc.,
was driving a vehicle in which Plaintiff was a passenger; the vehicle driven by
Ocampo collided with another vehicle, causing Plaintiff to sustain severe physical
and mental injuries.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 19-23.)

 
Lyft filed
its Answer to the Complaint on February 7, 2022.  Ocampo filed his Answer to the Complaint on
November 8, 2022.
 
On June
16, 2023, Ocampo filed this motion for both (1) a mental examination of
Plaintiff; and (2) additional physical examinations of Plaintiff.  Lyft filed a notice of joinder on June
26.  
 
The motion
was initially set for hearing on October 16. 
No opposition was filed, and Plaintiff did not appear at the
hearing.  Based upon procedural defects
in the moving papers, the Court continued the hearing.
 
Ocampo filed
supplemental papers in support of the motion on October 23 and November 15,
2023.
 
On
November 29, 2023, the parties submitted a stipulation regarding the physical
examinations of Plaintiff, resolving certain parts of the motion.
 
On January
9, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. 
Ocampo filed his reply on January 17.
 
Legal Standard
 
In California, discovery statutes “must be construed
liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes, information is discoverable
if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter of the
action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John B. v.
Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate to the
claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the
action.” (Ibid.)  “A party may
obtain discovery . . . by means of a mental or physical examination of . . . a
party to the action . . . in any action in which the mental or physical
condition . . . of that party is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.020(a).) 
 
“If any party desires to obtain discovery by
a physical examination [other than that authorized by section 2032.220] or by a
mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.310(a).) “A motion for examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will
perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(b).) “An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(d).)
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(a) provides that “[t]he
court shall grant a motion for physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  Good
cause requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and
that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
 
Discussion
 
The parties have, by stipulation filed with the Court on November 29,
2023, resolved the issue of the physical examinations of Plaintiff.  Accordingly, that aspect of the motion is now
moot.
Plaintiff also agrees to appear for the
requested mental examination by neuropsychologist Vincent Filoteo, Ph.D.  (Opp., at 2:6-8.)  The only remaining dispute relates to Plaintiff’s
request for two conditions on the examination: (1) that there be an audio
recording of the examination; and (2) that all raw data from the examination be
transmitted to Plaintiff’s counsel. 
(Opp., at 2:7-10; Fiore Decl., Exh. O.) 
Ocampo does not agree to those conditions.
Plaintiff’s request to record the examination
by audio technology is granted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.530, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff’s request
for her attorney to have access to the raw data from the testing requires a
more extended analysis.  Beginning with
the statute, a plaintiff
submitting to a mental examination has the right to demand that the defendant
deliver to the plaintiff a “copy of a detailed written report setting out the
history, examinations, findings, including the results of all tests made,
diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.610, subd. (a)(1).)  Ocampo opposes
the request for raw testing data, arguing that these materials must remain
confidential and that requiring disclosure of these materials directly to
Plaintiffs’ counsel would violate the code of professional conduct that applies
to mental health professionals.  Ocampo also
argue that the phrase “results of all tests made” in Code of Civil Procedure
2032.610, subdivision (a)(1), does not include raw data and test
materials.  (See Roe v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 138, 149 [rejecting,
in a writ proceeding, a party’s “undeveloped” argument that the statute
required disclosure of testing material and raw answers].)  
The
Court of Appeal recently considered this very issue in Randy’s Trucking v.
Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818. 
In that case, the superior court ordered that the raw data be provided
to plaintiff’s counsel, subject to a protective order that prohibited any use
or disclosure of the materials for any purpose other than in connection with
the litigation.  (Id. at p. 828.)  On writ review, the defendants made arguments
similar to the ones that Ocampo makes here, including (among others) : (1) that
disclosure is not required by section 2032.610; (2) that disclosure would
violate the ethical and professional obligations of the testing expert; and (3)
that disclosure to attorneys, rather than other health care professionals,
would lead to coaching of future clients that would undermine the value and
effectiveness of the testing materials. 
(Id. at pp. 834, 837-38.)  
The
Court of Appeal rejected those arguments, holding that the superior court did
not abuse its discretion in compelling the disclosure pursuant to a protective
order.  (Id. at p. 842).  As the Court of Appeal explained, a plaintiff
has a
right to take
discovery and cross-examine defendants’ expert witnesses, which includes being
able to examine the expert on the matter upon which the expert’s opinion is
based and the reasons for that opinion. 
(Evid. Code, § 721, subd. (a).) 
Without raw data and audio recording, plaintiffs cannot effectively
scrutinize the way the data was collected, determine if there are
discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist on the basis and reasons
for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.
(Id.
at p. 838.)  The appellate court also
rejected the argument that the disclosure should be made only to the
plaintiff’s expert, explaining (among other things) that a party “should not be
forced to retain an expert to gain access to these materials.”  (Ibid.)
After
carefully considering the evidence and arguments presented by both sides, the
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request that the order for the examination include a
provision requiring disclosure of the raw data and testing materials directly
to Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to a protective order, for two separate and
independent reasons.
First,
given the overall purposes of the Civil Discovery Act, the Court interprets the
phrase “results of all tests made” in section 2032.610 broadly, to include raw
testing data.  That interpretation
promotes the well-established policy in favor of broad and mutual pre-trial
disclosure that runs throughout the Civil Discovery Act and the case law.
Second,
even if the disclosure is not required by section 2032.610, the decision
whether to order disclosure of raw test data falls within the broad discretion
of the superior court.  (Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 837; Carpenter, supra, 141
Cal.App.4th at pp. 271-272.)  Here, the
Court has weighed the competing interests and finds that the appropriate
balance is struck by requiring disclosure subject to a protective order, just
as Superior Court Judge Barmann did in the Randy’s Trucking case.  This will allow Plaintiff access to the
material she needs to cross-examine Defendant’s expert and prepare for trial,
and it will minimize the risk of improper or undue distribution of the data to
third parties.
Following
the lead of Judge Barmann, the Court will order the following protective order
in this matter:
Plaintiff’s
counsel, defense counsel and all experts, consultants and employees of the
respective firms shall maintain the security of all raw data, test materials
and other medically private information obtained during the examination.
However, such raw data, test materials and other medically private information
may be disclosed to plaintiff’s counsel, defense counsel and all experts,
consultants and employees of the respective firms for use in this case. Such
materials and data may also be shown to the trier of fact at the time of trial,
or such other time as may be necessary for the adjudication of the
above-captioned matter. These materials may be used for no other purpose, may
not be disseminated to any other party and the parties shall take all reasonable
steps to maintain the confidentiality of the above-identified materials.
Counsel
may seek to add to or modify these provisions (by a court order entered
following a stipulation or motion), but the materials must be disclosed to
Plaintiff’s counsel, and, pending further order of the Court, the protective
order set forth above will apply.
The
Court finds that Plaintiff has not waived her right to request these
conditions.
The
Court understands that Dr. Filoteo may not conduct the examination with these
conditions.  (Filoteo Decl., ¶¶ 6-12.)  As to audio recording, this issue has been directly
addressed by the Legislature, and as to the raw test data, the Court has made
its ruling.  If Dr. Filoteo is not
willing to conduct the examination in accord with the conditions established by
the Court, then Defendant will need to determine how he wants to proceed.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES AS MOOT Defendant
Ocampo’s request for an order compelling additional physical examinations.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Ocampo’s request for an order
compelling Plaintiff to submit to a mental examination by J. Vincent Filoteo,
Ph.D., subject to the conditions set forth above.  The Court ORDERS that the examination take
place on a date to be arranged by counsel within 30 days of notice.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 

 