 Case Number:  23SMCV04364    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Cynthia Galas’s Motion for Protective Order Concerning Timing of Deposition of Plaintiff Cynthia Galas is DENIED.Plaintiff Cynthia Galas to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Cynthia Galas’s Motion for Protective Order Concerning Timing of Deposition of Plaintiff Cynthia Galas“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).) “The court for good cause shown may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) The protective order may provide that a deposition not be taken at all, be taken at a different time or place, or other certain limitations. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)Plaintiff moves the Court for an order regarding the timing of her deposition, i.e., Plaintiff seeks an order that she need not submit for deposition until Defendants PayQwick, Inc.; Green Check Verified, Inc.; and GCV Ventures, LLC have provided sufficient discovery responses. Notably, Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.020, subdivision (a), states that “the methods of discovery may be used in any sequence, and the fact that a party is conducting discovery, whether by deposition or another method, shall not operate to delay the discovery of any other party.” However, Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.020, subdivision (b), allows the court to “establish the sequence and timing of discovery for the convenience of parties and witnesses and in the interests of justice” where good cause is shown.Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate good cause for issuing an order regulating the timing and sequence of discovery, i.e., requiring Defendants to provide discovery deemed sufficient to Plaintiff before she is required to submit for her deposition. There is no evidence before the Court that Defendants have refused to engage in conversations about discovery disputes, there is no basis to place a “hold” on a party’s deposition until that party is satisfied with the deposing party’s discovery responses, and Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that Defendants have refused to respond to discovery in bad faith. Accordingly, Plaintiff Cynthia Galas’s Motion for Protective Order Concerning Timing of Deposition of Plaintiff Cynthia Galas is DENIED.