  Case Number:  22TRCV00944    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                   Monday, July 15,2024
Department M      Calendar No. 7  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Christopher
Nowlin, et al. v. Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc., et al.    
22TRCV00944
1.     
Coastline Real
Estate Advisors, Inc.’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings    
2.     
Coastline Real
Estate Advisors, Inc.’s Motion to Strike
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc.’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is denied, in part, granted without leave to amend,
in part, and granted with 20 days leave to amend, in part. 
 
Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike is denied, in part, granted with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and
moot in part.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on October 13, 2022,
and the First Amended Complaint on January 16, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. Plaintiffs were tenants at the property that was owned and
managed by the Defendant. The property suffered from mold and other substandard
conditions that were not repaired. Plaintiffs were harassed and constructively
evicted. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Nuisance; 2.
Violation of Civil Code 1940.2; 3. Breach of Contract; 4. Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 5. Negligence; 6. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress; 7. Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability; 8.
Intentional Misrepresentation. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendant filed meet and confer declarations in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 439 and CCP § 435.5. (Decl., Susan Gruskin, ¶¶
4-6.)
 
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same
function as a general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has
expired.  Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).  Except as provided by
statute, the rules governing demurrers apply.  Civic Partners Stockton,
LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1012.  “Judgment on the
pleadings is proper when the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against the defendant.”  Rolfe v. Cal.
Transp. Comm’n (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 239, 242; see also Code Civ. Proc., §
438, subd. (c)(3)(B)(ii).  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for the motion
[for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.”  Civic Partners Stockton, LLC, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial
notice may be taken are assumed to be true.”  Rippon v. Bowen
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
the first through fourth and sixth through eighth causes of action on the
grounds that the causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.
 
First, the Court addresses Defendant’s argument that
Plaintiffs made changes and additions to the Complaint in the First Amended
Complaint. Under the sham pleading doctrine, a pleader cannot circumvent prior
admissions by amending a pleading without explanation.” Womack v. Lovell
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 772, 787. Here, while there are a few minor changes in
dates and additional facts alleged, nothing rises to the level of significant
admissions that are attempted to be circumvented with the amended pleading. The
sham pleading doctrine does not apply in this instance.
 
First Cause of Action for Nuisance

The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
first cause of action is denied. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.
 
“Civil Code section 3479 defines a nuisance as
‘[a]nything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.’” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919.    
 
“The elements of an action for private nuisance are:
First, the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and enjoyment of
his property. Second, the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the use and
enjoyment of the land [must be] substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the
plaintiff to suffer ‘substantial actual damage. Third, [t]he interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, but it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration or amount as to constitute
unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.”  Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners,
LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63 (internal citations and quotations
omitted). 
 
“A private nuisance cause of action requires the
plaintiff to prove an injury specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of
his or her land.  Pursuant to Civil Code
section 3501, a plaintiff seeking to remedy a private nuisance is
limited to a civil action or abatement. Unlike public nuisance,
which is an interference with the rights of the community at large, private
nuisance is a civil wrong based on disturbance of rights in land.... [T]o
proceed on a private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove an injury
specifically referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land. The injury,
however, need not be different in kind from that suffered by the general
public.” Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 248, 262 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Here, Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to
state a cause of action based on private nuisance. Plaintiffs have alleged
facts that Defendant interfered with Plaintiff’s use and enjoyment of the
property by failing to promptly remedy the water leak issue and subsequent mold,
as well as numerous other instances of interference. (FAC, ¶¶ 8-39.) Defendant
argues that the interference was not substantial. However, whether the
interference was or was not substantial to ultimately prove Plaintiffs’ claims
are not at issue with this motion, which operates similarly to a demurrer. 
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
first cause of action is denied.
 
Second Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code
1940.2(a)
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
second cause of action is denied. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.
 
Plaintiffs state sufficient facts to state a cause of
action for Retaliatory Eviction pursuant to CC § 1940.2(a)(3). Civ. Code, §
1940.2(a)(3) states: “It is unlawful for a landlord to do any of the following
for the purpose of influencing a tenant to vacate a dwelling: (3) Use, or
threaten to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a
course of conduct that interferes with the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the
premises in violation of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm
in a reasonable person. Nothing in this paragraph requires a tenant to be
actually or constructively evicted in order to obtain relief.”
 
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts of menacing
conduct that interfered with the quiet enjoyment of the premises. (FAC, ¶¶ 8-33.)
 These facts were incorporated into this
cause of action.  Contrary to Defendant’s
arguments, Plaintiffs have alleged more than mere conclusions.
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
second cause of action is denied.
 
Third Cause of Action for Breach of Contract
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
third cause of action is denied. Plaintiffs state sufficient facts to state a
cause of action.
 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of
contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 384, 391(internal quotations omitted). “[T]he complaint must
indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by
conduct. [...] If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written
contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a
copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.”
Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452,
458–59. Plaintiffs must either: (a) set forth the terms of the
contract verbatim, (b) attach a copy of the contract and incorporate it by
reference, or (c) plead its legal effect. 
McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489. 
 
The elements of the cause of action have been
sufficiently stated. (FAC, ¶¶ 47-54.) Defendant appears to take issue with the
fact that the written contract was not attached. However, Plaintiffs have
sufficiently stated the legal effect of the contract which appears to be a
typical and routine rental lease agreement.
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
third cause of action is denied.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
 
Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to
the fourth cause of action is denied. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
 
“[E]very lease contains an implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant shall
have quiet enjoyment and possession of the premises. The covenant of quiet
enjoyment insulates the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the
landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a tenants right
to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.
[...] To be actionable, the landlords act or omission must substantially interfere
with a tenants (sic) right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes
contemplated by the tenancy.” Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 578, 588–89 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original).
 
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to meet each
of the elements of the cause of action. (FAC, ¶¶ 8-33; 55-58.)  Essentially, the alleged facts of the
nuisance, harassment, and breach of contract noted above are restated to
support grounds for the alleged disturbance with quiet enjoyment. Like the
first cause of action, whether Defendant’s actions constitute substantial
interference will be a factual issue not appropriate for adjudication with this
motion.
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
fourth cause of action is denied. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for NIED
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
sixth cause of action is granted without leave to amend.  Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient facts to
state a cause of action for NIED. 
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress is not an
independent cause of action.  Instead,
emotional distress is a component of damages that may be recoverable in a
Negligence cause of action.  See, Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Med. Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588. Thus, because a separate cause
of action for Negligence has been asserted to which no demurrer or motion for
judgment on the pleadings was directed, the NIED cause of action is simply
duplicative of the negligence cause of action. 

 
Thus, the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to
the sixth cause of action is granted without leave to amend. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Habitability
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
seventh cause of action is denied. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. 
 
“[A] warranty of habitability is implied by law in
residential leases. The elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied
warranty of habitability are the existence of a material defective condition
affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition
within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the
landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting
damages. The alleged defective condition must “affect the tenant's apartment or
the common areas which he uses.” Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks
Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891 (internal citations and
quotations omitted).
 
“The lessor of a building intended for the occupation
of human beings must, in the absence of an agreement to the contrary, put it
into a condition fit for such occupation, and repair all subsequent
dilapidations thereof, which render it untenantable, except such as are
mentioned in section nineteen hundred and twenty-nine.” Civ. Code, § 1941.
 
As noted above, sufficient facts have been alleged
that would also support a cause of action for breach of the warranty of
habitability. (FAC, ¶¶ 8-33; 70-77.)
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
seventh cause of action is denied. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Intentional
Misrepresentation 
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the
eighth cause of action is granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail
to state sufficient specific to state a cause of action. 
 
“A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.
 
“Every element of the cause of action for fraud must
be alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the
nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiff must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs contend that they have
alleged a representation, or  representations
made by Jimmy Ordaz, a property manager. However, Plaintiffs have not alleged
specific facts as to whom the representations were made, and when, where, and
by what means the representations were made. 
 
Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is
granted with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
laws.  CCP § 436.  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437. 
 
Defendant moves to strike the following:
 
“1. Prayer for Relief, Page 19, line 17, Paragraph e:
“Attorney’s fees and costs of this action;” 
2. Prayer for Relief, Page 19, line 19, Paragraph g:
“Punitive damages in an amount to be determined at trial;” 
3. Prayer for Relief, Page 19, line 20, Paragraph h:
“Statutory penalties as proscribed by law;” 
4. Paragraph 39, Page 10, line 25- Page 11, line 1:
“Their conduct and lack of proactive good management practices was willful,
negligent, oppressive, and malicious. Defendant’s nonfeasance created the
unsafe and dangerous conditions at the Unit and the Complex. Defendant’s
conduct is part of a pattern which shows Defendant’s conscious disregard for
ensuring a healthy environment for tenants in general, and of Plaintiffs in
particular.” 
5. Paragraph 39, Page 11, lines 4-8: “Therefore,
Defendant intentionally, or with a reckless disregard, have failed to maintain
the Unit during Plaintiffs’ tenure. This conduct and lack of proactive good
management practices was willful, intentional, and done with oppression and
malice against Plaintiffs, and is with a total disregard for Plaintiffs’ health, safety, and well-being. This
behavior warrants the imposition of punitive damages in a sum appropriate to
punish the Defendants and deter future, similar misconduct.” 
6. Paragraph 45, Page 11, lines 23-24: “As a result of
Defendants’ repeated violations of Civil Code §1940.2, Plaintiffs are entitled
to statutory damages of $2,000 for each violation.”
7. Paragraph 46, Page 12, lines 4-8: “Defendant’s
conduct was negligent and willful, intentional, outrageous, and done with
oppression and malice against Plaintiffs, and with a total disregard for
Plaintiffs’ as well as their fetus’ health, safety, and well-being. This
behavior warrants the imposition of punitive damages in a sum appropriate to
punish Defendants and deter future, similar misconduct. Plaintiffs therefore
seek punitive damages.” 
8. Paragraph 77, Page 17, lines 17-19: “Defendant
ignored the conditions at the Unit. Defendant’s conduct is part of a pattern of
inaction by Defendants which shows their conscious disregard for ensuring a
healthy environment for tenants in general.” 
9. Paragraph 77, Page 17, lines 22-23: “Therefore,
Defendant intentionally, or with a reckless disregard, failed to maintain the
Unit during Plaintiffs’ tenure”. 
10. Paragraph 77, Page 17, line 25- Page 18, line 2:
“Therefore, Defendants intentionally, or with a reckless disregard, failed to
maintain the Unit during Plaintiffs' tenure. This conduct and lack of proactive
good management practices was willful, intentional, and done with oppression and malice against Plaintiffs, and is with
a total disregard for Plaintiffs health, safety, and well-being. This behavior
warrants the imposition of punitive damages in a sum appropriate to punish the
Defendants and deter future, similar misconduct.” 
11. Paragraph 83, Page 19, lines 4-6: “On information
and belief, Defendant acted with fraud, oppression, and malice. Defendant’s
actions and inactions were outrageous and maliciously motivated by a desire to
increase their financial profits at the expense of their tenants.” 
12. Paragraph 83, Page 19, lines 8-10: Such actions
justify an award of fines and penalties under Civil Code §§ 72 and 789.3a and
Health and Safety Code §17995, punitive damages under Civil Code §3294 to
punish and deter other landlords from taking advantage of unsuspecting
tenants.” (Notice of Motion, pages ii and iii).
 
As to Item 1, and only as to “attorneys’ fees,” the
motion is granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs have failed to set
forth a contractual or statutory basis for attorneys’ fees.
 
As to Items 2, 4, 5, and 7 to 10, the motion is
denied.
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for
breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from
suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if the
landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id. “[I]f the tenant wrongfully evicted elects to sue in
tort, damages may be awarded for mental anguish and pain or physical injury;
exemplary damages may also be recovered when the landlord's conduct justifies
the award[.]” Id. at 926.
 
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient specific facts that
Defendant acted with malice and/or oppression to support the allegations and
prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiffs have also alleged facts that the acts
were committed by an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant, or was
authorized or ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent.
 
As to Items 3 and 6, the motion is denied. Plaintiffs
have adequately pled a statutory cause of action to support a claim for
statutory penalties.
 
As to Items 11 and 12, the motion is moot upon the
granting of the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the eighth cause of
action.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.