 Case Number:  VC066228    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  C CITIZENS OF HUMANITY, LLC VS NICK LACY
Case No. VC066228
Hearing Date: 12/05/23 @ 10:30am
 
#7
Tentative Order 
Plaintiff Citizens of Humanity, LLC’s Motion
for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
Opposing party to give notice.  
 
Background
Plaintiff CITIZENS OF HUMANITY, LLC (“Citizens”) alleges Defendant
Nick Lacy (“Lacy”) performed some modeling work for Citizens for a fee of
$7,500.00.  Pursuant to Lacy’s
instructions, Citizens paid the fee to Lacy’s modeling agency which in turn
paid Lacy.  Lacy then filed
administrative claims with the Labor Commissioner alleging that Citizens owed
him $126,999 in waiting-time penalties because Citizens failed to pay him
directly.  Citizens filed this lawsuit on
April 11, 2017, after Lacy filed his claims with the Labor Commissioner.  Citizens’ First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
requests a declaration that Citizens is not liable to Lacy for any Labor Code
violation. (Id., ¶¶ 20-22, Prayer for Relief ¶1.) Citizens also alleges,
among other things, that Lacy defrauded it by having his agent, Next, demand
that Citizens pay Next, instead of paying Lacy directly – all the while knowing
that he (Lacy) would sue Citizens for not paying Lacy directly. (Id.,
¶¶36-38.)
On November 5, 2020, the Court denied a motion by Lacy for
summary adjudication of, inter alia, Citizens’ first cause of action for
declaratory relief on the issue of whether Lacy was an employee of Citizens. 
On February 14, 2023, all parties, through their respective
counsel of record, stipulated to continue the trial, and the Court entered an
order continuing the trial per the stipulation of all parties.  Specifically, the Stipulation to Continue
Trial and the Order Continuing Trial explicitly stated: “The continuance of the
trial date shall not result in a continuance of the previous deadlines for
completion of discovery, expert disclosures and discovery and motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication.” (Hall Dec., ¶ 2; Exs. A & B,
emphasis added.)
Citizens filed its Motion for Summary Judgement, or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication on September 25, 2023.  
Legal
Standard 
Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant
seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more
elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.”  (Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden
by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of
evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the defendant
meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or
defense thereto.”  (Id.)   
 
Until
the moving defendant has discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff
has no burden to come forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has
discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, however, the
plaintiff may defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the
moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his
opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary
judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v.
Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
Discussion

Unless the court has ordered or the parties have agreed to
an earlier time, a MSJ must be heard at least 30 days before the date of trial.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(3).) “The motion shall be heard no later than
30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(a)(3).)
A party has the capacity to waive even procedural rules
designed to protect fundamental rights. “‘It is a well-recognized proposition
that “[a] person is free to waive any or all procedures required and designed
to safeguard fundamental rights” …  Such
waiver may be express, i.e., by stipulation of the parties, or implied.’” (In
re Marriage of Binette (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1119, 1130.)
As discussed above, in February 2023, all parties, through
their respective counsel of record, stipulated to continue the trial, and the
Court entered an order continuing the trial per the stipulation of all parties.
Both the Stipulation to Continue Trial and the Order Continuing Trial
explicitly stated: “The continuance of the trial date shall not result in a
continuance of the previous deadlines for completion of discovery, expert
disclosures and discovery and motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication.”
(Hall Dec., ¶ 2; Exs. A & B, emphasis added.) Notably, both the Stipulation
to Continue Trial and the Order Continuing Trial were drafted by counsel for
COH. (Hall Dec., ¶ 2.)  Not only did Citizens
make a clear written waiver of the statutory extension of the MSJ deadline upon
continuation of the trial date, but it also caused the waiver to become an
order of the court. 
The Court finds that the parties entered into a valid and
enforceable stipulation to continue trial and not to continue the
previous deadline for motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication (i.e.,
30 days before the February 2023 trial date). 
Citizens asks this court to find good cause to hear the motion because
the motion is clearly meritorious and granting the motion will obviate the need
for a trial.  The court declines to
exercise its discretion to find good cause. 
As much as the court would favor an efficient resolution of the present
matter, hearing the motion at this juncture is directly at odds with the mutual
understanding of the parties and, in the court’s view, is contrary to basic
notions of fair play.  In denying
Citizens’ motion, the court expresses no opinion regarding the merits of
Citizens’ lawsuit.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment or
Summary Adjudication is DENIED. 