


[1] CAG notes that while the notice in Yeroushalmi
was found wholly deficient that was based upon the requirement that the notice
substantially comply with the statute. Similarly, CAG argues that in Kintetsu
if a strict compliance test was required, the case would not have been allowed
to proceed. Merely because a statute uses the word “shall” does not mean its
requirements must be construed strictly. (Downtown Palo Alto Com. for Fair
Assessment v. City Council (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 384, 395) Similalrly, they
argue, “substantial compliance” does not mean a plaintiff does not have to meet
“all” requirements for a notice, only that each requirement be substantially
satisfied.   


[2] To this end, they note that acts of an agent within
the course and scope of its agency are deemed acts of the principal (Blanton
v. Womancare (1985) 38 Cal.3d 396, 403) and an attorney is therefore
conceptually at least an agent “within” the entity. 


[3] For example, they note that in Kintetsu the pre-suit
notice in question included designation of outside counsel, was not the subject
of controversy and the Court reversed the dismissal of the action based on
claimed deficiency of the notice. 


[4] The Court takes judicial notice of the orders in
CAG’s request for judicial notice.


[5] By contrast, the court noted that if the language is
clear, courts must generally follow its plain meaning unless a literal
interpretation would result in absurd consequences the Legislature did not
intend. If the statutory language permits more than one reasonable
interpretation, courts may consider other aids, such as the statute’s purpose,
legislative history, and public policy, citing Meda v. Autozone (20220 81
Cal.App.5th 366, 378. 


[6] Both sides contended initially that Yeroushalmi and
Kintetsu supported their position as to which test should apply. As
Defendants then acknowledged, neither decision specifically indicates one way
or another what level of compliance is required.  


[7] Defendants do not cite to any part of the regulations
that show the Legislature intended to limit whom an entity might designate.
Indeed, the Legislature contemplated that an entity might be represented, and
that if so, the lawyer would need to sign the certificate of merit. 


[8] The Court also takes judicial notice of that ruling
in Ex. E to Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice. 


[9] For this reason, the Court does not find that the
statute is as clear and unambiguous as reading solely the statute might
suggest. Indeed, the conflicting judicial interpretation of the statute is
itself some evidence that it is reasonably susceptible to two different meanings
as concerns the issue here. Consequently, the Court can refer to other evidence
in determining what the Legislature intended. 

