  Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DISMISS COMPLAINT FOR LACK OF STANDING  
 
Consumer Advocacy
Group v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date: May 2,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On June 20,
2017, Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group (“CAG”) filed a complaint in this case.

 
          On April
4, 2024, the Court commenced the bench trial by the parties filing the
declarations of their respective witnesses, in lieu of direct examination,
pursuant to stipulation. 
 
          On April
8, 2024, Defendants filed an ex parte application for an order
shortening time for hearing the above-referenced motion prior to the cross-examination
portion of the trial scheduled to begin on April 15, 2024. CAG filed
opposition. On April 9, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted
the ex parte application in part and set the hearing on May 2, 2024, before
resumption of trial after there was to be a break for unrelated reasons. 
 
          On April
9, 2024, Defendants filed the subject motion to dismiss the pending second
amended complaint, pursuant to CCP sec. 410.10, on the basis that a claim under
Proposition (“Prop”) 65 requires a pre-suit notice of violation and that the
notices CAG served in connection with the claims here did not comply with all
of the mandatory requirements, pursuant to Health & Safety (“H&S”) Code
sec. 25249.7(d), and the regulations thereunder, in that (1) they did not
“identify the name, address, and telephone number of the noticing individual or
[relevant here] a responsible individual within the noticing entity,” per
27 Cal. Code of Regulations, sec. 25903(b)(2)(A)(1) (emphasis added), instead identifying
CAG’s counsel, and (2) they were not served on the San Diego County District
Attorney where the complaint alleged that the violation occurred in each county
in California.  
 
          Defendants
contend that these pre-suit notices are subject to strict compliance standards,
substantial compliance is not sufficient and deficient notices cannot be cured.
(Di Pirro v. Am. Isuzu Motors (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 966, 971,
Physicians Comm, et al., v. Applebee’s (2014) 22 Cal.App.4th
166, 182-83) They argue that the basis for treating the notices this way is
that the Legislature was concerned that “private enforcers” such as CAG advise
public prosecutors prior to being able to take on this role for the public, where
private enforcement results in 25% of the penalties going to the plaintiff, as
well as to allow alleged violators to remedy any legitimate exposures without
need for court involvement. (CAG v. Kintetsu Enters. Am. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
953, 963-64) ) (Due process for alleged violators is to be able to avoid
penalties by resolving complaints before suit)  Suit may be filed if after 60 days of notice,
no public prosecutor has commenced an enforcement action. (Ctr. for
Self-Improvement v. Lennar Corp. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1543,
1551) Hence, failure to comply with these requirements is grounds for dismissal,
and is not a “mere technicality,” where deficiencies cannot be cured after the
complaint is filed. (Council for Educ. & Rsch. on Toxics v. Starbucks
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 879, 900) Substantial compliance with the
regulation is insufficient to be able to proceed. (Yeroushalmi v. Miramar Sheraton
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 738, 746, Sciortino v. Pepsico, 108
F.Supp.3d 780, 788 (N.D. Cal. 2015)) (See also Hallstrom v. Tillamook
Co. 493 U.S. 20, 31 (concerning complying with the mandatory requirements
for similar notices before filing an action under the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act)  
 
         
Defendants also refer to recent decisions of two other judges of this
Court and of two other different courts that have ruled on the exact same
alleged defects in CAG notices based on Prop 65 violations and as a result
dismissed those complaints. 
 
          Judge
Long granted a motion for judgment on the pleadings against CAG in a similar
Prop 65 suit where the notice like here designated counsel for CAG, Reuben Yeroushalmi,
as the designated person in the notice on the basis that he was not a
“responsible individual within the noticing entity.” (The Court takes judicial
notice of Ex. A to their request.) The Court ruled that Yeroushalmi was only an
agent of CAG as its attorney and that the notice did not include the required
identifying information of a “responsible individual within the noticing
entity.” Strict, as opposed to substantial, compliance with the statute was
required for two principal reasons: 
 
          First, one
of the reasons for sec. 12903 was that many notices do not describe the nature
of the alleged violation in an intelligible manner and thereby impede the goals
of the statute through quick compliance. “Identifying the noticing entity’s
attorney, rather than an individual within the entity, is contrary to the goal of
curing violations without litigation.” (p. 6) 
 
          Second, if
identification of an individual who can speak on behalf of the entity was what
the Legislature intended, as CAG argued, “then it could have required the
identification of any individual who can speak on behalf of the entity, rather
than an individual “within” the entity. The Plaintiff’s interpretation would
render “within” meaningless, and “[i]nterpretations that render statutory
language meaningless are to be avoided.” (Citation omitted)” (p. 7) 
 
         
Similarly, Judge Young also granted a motion for judgment on the
pleadings against CAG in a Prop 65 suit where the notice again designated Yeroushalmi
as the designated person in the notice on the basis that he was not a
“responsible individual within the noticing entity.” (The Court takes judicial
notice of Ex. D to their request.) Judge Young likewise ruled that the Legislature
required strict compliance at least with this subsection 25903(a), the plain
language of which required designation of a responsible individual “within” the
entity as opposed to here “outside” counsel, Yeroushalmi. The Court further addressed
various reasons why CAG wanted outside counsel to handle these notices rather
than one of its own in-house persons and thereby again concluded Yeroushalmi
was not “within” the entity. 
 
          Further, Defendants
argue here that designating an outside lawyer rather than the responsible
individual within an entity is materially different in that there is not the
same ability to discuss resolution or to cure the alleged violation and forces
the alleged violator to hire its own counsel. 
 
          Finally, Defendants
argue also that dismissal is required where the objection to the notice comes even
at a late stage of the proceedings. (Consumer Def. Group v. Rental Housing,
et al. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1185 (reversing trial court
decision to not allow objection to validity of notice at late date where the
notices were so unclear as to allow meaningful review by the Attorney General))
Lack of standing may be asserted at any time. (Calif. for Disability Rights
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 233) 
 
          On April
19, 2024, CAG filed opposition to the motion: Initially, CAG argues substantial,
not strict, compliance is the relevant inquiry here, citing Yeroushalmi and
Kintetsu.[1]
However, even if strict compliance were the test, the notices are compliant
because a lawyer is acting for the entity and hence is “responsible,” and is
“within” the entity in that the lawyer is its designated agent.[2] In
essence, they argue that “within” should not be read literally in the sense of having
the same physical address. 
 
          In turn, in
terms of substantial compliance, and considering the purpose of the statute,
they argue Defendants’ interpretation of sec. 25903(b) to preclude CAG from
designating a lawyer as the contact person would frustrate informal resolution
of cases short of litigation. They argue that the statutory language,
“responsible individual within the entity,” should not be limited to an officer
or director but given the legal issues involved would need to be a person who
understands those legal issues such as a lawyer. Relatedly, they argue that
here designating a lawyer did not impede resolution because the parties entered
into a tolling and confidentiality agreement precisely to determine whether
resolution was possible. 
 
          Indeed,
they argue that Defendants’ reading of the statute would be inconsistent with sec.
25249.7(d)(1), requiring that prior to commencement of litigation a lawyer for an
entity that is represented sign a certificate of merit, and the resulting common
practice of entities bringing Prop 65 cases to designate counsel.[3]
They argue that sec. 25249.7(d) should not be construed in isolation but in the
context of the whole statutory scheme. (Hoffman v. Young (2022) 13 Cal.5th
1257, 1266)  
 
          CAG also
complains as to the timing of the motion after trial had begun and after years
of litigation, as well as given counsel for Defendants had known of this issue
previously by virtue of representation of its clients in similar cases. 
 
          In
addition, CAG also refers to six judges who have reached a different conclusion
on the exact same issue than the courts Defendants identified.[4] 
 
          Judge Killifer
of this Court denied a motion for judgment on the pleadings based on this exact
issue in another action CAG brought. There, the Court found that there was
ambiguity as to whether Prop 65’s pre-suit notice requirement requires only
substantial rather than strict compliance, noting there was a split between
courts on this issue.[5] Given
that situation, the court stated unless the intent of the statute can only be
served by demanding strict compliance with its terms, substantial compliance is
the governing test, citing County of Tulare v. Campbell (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
747, 853. In evaluating whether a statutory mandate is to be accorded mandatory
or directory effect, courts are to focus on its purpose or function. (Manderson-Saleh
v. Regents Univ. Calif. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 674, 704) The
Court notes that sec. 25903(b)(2) provides that the provisions of this
paragraph “shall not be interpreted to require more than reasonably clear
information, suggesting the Legislature did not necessarily mandate strict
compliance when it came to the contents of the information in the notice
requirement. Given that attorneys are the client’s agent, the court found the
purpose of Prop 65 was not hindered if the contact information of its counsel,
rather than the responsible individual within CAG’s organization, was put in
the notice. The Court was not persuaded by any argument of the defendant that
its ability to investigate, cure or resolve the alleged violation was thwarted
by the designation of a lawyer for Plaintiff rather than a person within the
organization. Instead, the Court notes that where there is compliance as to all
matters of substance, technical violations are not to be given the stature of
noncompliance, citing Troyk v. Farmers Group (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1305, 1332-1333. 
 
          The
decision of Judge Traber has very similar analysis to that of Judge Killifer.
The decision also notes that Hallstrom, supra, cannot properly be relied
on to argue there should be strict rather than substantial compliance with
pre-suit notice requirements because in that case there was not even
substantial compliance and in fact there was no compliance. (493 U.S. at 26-27)
Likewise, Judge Dillon reached the same conclusion, finding designation of an
outside law firm as its agent was sufficient to allow an investigation and the
lack of the noticing party’s information did not impede an investigation or
resolution. 
 
          While the
Court acknowledges Judge Berle also reached the same conclusion, his decision
reflects merely what was stated on the record, the court does not have that
record and therefore the Court does not have the benefit of his reasoning. Similarly,
the decision of Judges Leiter and Roesch (in Alameda County) are not useful
here where those decisions do not reflect the reasoning for those courts reaching
the same conclusion. 
 
          Finally, CAG
argues that not having served the San Diego DA’s Office is inconsequential so
long as it served the DA in the county where the action was brought, Los
Angeles, which it did. (Kintetsu, at 979-980) 
 
          On April
24, 2024, Defendants filed a Reply. They acknowledge that neither Yeroushalmi
nor Kintetsu holds definitively whether the strict or substantial
compliance test applies. They argue that this Court should take judicial notice
of the trial court decisions that support their conclusion but not consider the
trial court decisions that support CAG’s position. On the merits, they contend that
allowing designation of outside counsel would impermissibly create a statutory
exception. Further, given that a lawyer must execute a certificate of merit,
they contend the absence of reference to a lawyer in sec. 25903(b) was
intentional, and to hold otherwise would be to effectively rewrite the statute.
(Andrews v. Metro. Transit Sys. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 597,
607 (where a statute prescribes a certain kind of notice, a court is not justified
to conclude that some other kind of notice would be equally effective)) 
            
 
DISCUSSION 
 
         
Initially, except as noted below on the merits concerning the purpose of
the statute, the Court rejects CAG’s complaint as to the timing of the motion. Though
somewhat prejudicial to have to now address it at trial, the Court deferred
proceeding with trial to allow for briefing. Moreover, the issue of standing can
be raised at any time. 
 
          In turn, procedurally, the parties do
not address that technically a motion to dismiss is not the mechanism provided
by statute for lack of standing. This would ordinarily be brought by way of
demurer or motion for judgment on the pleadings. The foregoing is significant
as those procedures do not permit consideration of evidence outside the
allegations of the pleadings. Here, Defendants have not objected to
consideration of the evidence CAG offered. To the extent that this evidence should
not be properly considered, however, the Court still reaches the same
conclusion without consideration of that evidence and merely applying the
statute to the issue here. 
 
          As noted
at an earlier hearing, this Court is not bound by decisions of other trial
court judges who have addressed very similar if not the same issues in other Prop
65 cases – as both parties have requested that the Court consider. The Court is
not giving them any precedential value or collateral estoppel effect. That is
not to say, however, that the Court cannot consider their analysis of these
issues and then make its own decision, with those decisions in mind, in the
exercise of its own judgment. 
 
          Here, in
applying the test whether strict or substantial compliance is required, the
Court agrees with the reasoning of Judge Killefer that compliance with the regulation
cannot only be performed by strict compliance and therefore substantial
compliance is the relevant test.[6] The
Court cannot say that the regulation’s purpose is not just as served by designating
an outside lawyer as opposed to an individual within the entity. After all, the
person within the entity could also be a lawyer. (The person designated does
not have to be an officer or director.) That here CAG elected to use an outside
lawyer - and it is not clear if it had an in-house lawyer - does not mean that
the alleged violator would not be able to come to an informal resolution.[7] To
prohibit the decision by CAG to designate in its notices an outside counsel rather
than any in-house lawyer or anyone within CAG for legitimate reasons “would
result in absurd consequences” the Legislature likely did not intend –
particularly here where the parties have already been litigating this issue for
over five years and have already started trial on the merits. The Court does
not infer any legislative or regulatory intent to purposefully use the language
it did to avoid an entity’s use of an agent with necessary authority or designation
of counsel. 
 
          Furthermore,
there is no showing by Defendants that if they had clearer information in the
notice, or the notice had designated a person within the organization rather
than outside counsel, there is any reason to believe this would have avoided
suit. Given the degree to which the parties are litigating the merits of this
case, and the number of other similar cases CAG has brought over these issues,
it is not reasonable to conclude that a notice that had the name of an
individual within the entity that this would have been material and avoided
suit by way of informal resolution. Indeed, the parties here appear to have
entered into a tolling agreement to delay having to file suit to potentially resolve
this case informally. Hence, the Court is satisfied that the purpose of sec. 25903(b)
to facilitate informal resolution prior to filing suit was met here and
therefore would make dismissal an unjustified consequence.  
 
          The Court also disagrees with the inference as
a matter of law that by designating an outside lawyer, rather than a person
(including lawyer) within the entity that an alleged offender would be less
likely to resolve the matter informally or that this would necessarily hinder
the resolution process. This unreasonably assumes that typically a lawyer would
not be acting in the client’s best interests and that ultimately whether the
matter could not be resolved would be for the lawyer as agent rather than the
client as principal to decide. While undoubtedly there are outside lawyers who will
seek to derive personal benefit by litigating rather than resolving the matter
for the client where the client would otherwise want to do so, that cannot be
assumed is typically the case. It must be reasonably presumed that the client entity
has elected to use an outside lawyer because it is in in its best interest to
do so, and that the lawyer will act, consistent with complying with the law to
resolve matters short of litigation, if that is what the client chooses to do.
 
          Presumably,
if the client decides not to resolve matters, there may be other consequences –
but that does not depend on whether the entity has designated an outside lawyer
as the contact person. Reaching the conclusion that the purpose of resolution will
not be satisfied because of whom the contact person is designated to be, versus
who decides whether a matter should be resolved, elevates the contact person to
be the decision maker – an inference that goes too far. In this sense, the
relevant individual within the entity is still the decisionmaker for purposes
of informal resolution.  
 
         
Consistent therewith, this Court does not find under these
circumstances, as did the courts granting the motions for judgment on the
pleadings, that this interpretation makes the term “within” meaningless because
the issue here is one of substantial not strict compliance. This issue is only
one if strict compliance applies. Moreover, as noted above, reading this
literally leads to absurd consequences. 
 
         Further,
it was not clear to this court that the Legislature intended that subsection (b)
would reasonably be subject to substantial compliance while subsection (a) was
subject to strict compliance merely because (b)(2)(A) addressed more specific
requirements than the other parts of sub-section (b). While Judge Grillo (in
Alameda County) came to a different conclusion,[8]  as discussed above, this bench officer at
least does not find the language that at first blush seems clear to be as clear
as the statute alone would suggest and for this reason believes it is necessary
to consider the purpose of the law (which it finds this notice satisfied by
substantial compliance.) Further, seemingly different from the notices Judge
Grillo was considering, here the address of the entity is the address of CAG, as
well as giving Yeroushalmi’s address. 
 
          In
addition, the language in (b)(2) that “[t]he provisions of this paragraph shall
not be interpreted to require more than reasonably clear information, expressed
in terms of common usage and understanding, on each of the indicated topics”
suggests that the Legislature did not intend the notices to meet overly
legalistic or technical requirements and that the focus instead be practical – suggesting
an intent that substantial compliance would suffice. There is no indication in
the regulation that this language does not apply to sub-section (b)(2)(A) that includes
the requirement at issue here. 
 
         
Consequently, the Court finds that the notices here are in substantial
compliance with section 25903(b) in having designated Yeroushalmi as the responsible
contact person for CAG. 
 
          Moreover,
even if strict compliance was the test, arguendo, the Court finds that
Defendants’ reading of “within” as referring to a physical address does not reflect
necessarily what the Legislature likely would have intended.[9]
The purpose was to have a “responsible” person who can speak for an entity.
That does not necessarily mean a person who works “within” the same address as
the entity. A person who is at that building may not be “within” the entity if
they are not also a “responsible” person. Moreover, in this digital age, and
one also where employees often routinely work remotely, the physical address of
a business no longer has the meaning it once did. “Within” should be read as
having the ability to speak for the entity, as opposed to a different entity or
person who might not have the “inside” power to resolve the issue – which would
depend on the authority given the lawyer. There is no evidence here that the
lawyer had not been given that authority or agency to resolve the matter. Therefore,
the Court is not intending hereby to create a judicial exception to the statute
or to modify the statute. 
 
         
Consequently, the Court also finds the notice is in strict compliance
with the regulation as well. 
 
           Finally,
the Court does not find that CAG not having served the San Diego County DA’s
office makes this case subject to dismissal where it involves defendants allegedly
doing business in Los Angeles County where CAG did serve the offices of the
Attorney General and the Los Angeles County DA’s office, where this action was
filed.  
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the motion. 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                    
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


