 Case Number:  23VECV01953    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  T BEJUNE V BERSHIRE HATHAWAY 23VECV01953
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: Defendant
Amguard Insurance Company's Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
Introduction 
Defendant Amguard Insurance
Company (Amguard), erroneously sued as Berkshire Hathaway Guard, moves for
summary judgment of the Complaint, which contains two causes of action for
breach of contract and breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing.  Plaintiffs Candace Bejune and Rick Bejune
(collectively, Plaintiffs) oppose the motion.
Evidentiary Objections
The Court notes that Plaintiffs
did not file any evidentiary objections.
Amguard objects to the entire
declarations of Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs' expert witness Janice A. Ramsay
(Objection Nos. 1 to 3).  However, not
every paragraph in those declarations warrants the objections Amguard has
presented.  To the extent Amguard found
certain paragraphs inadmissible (e.g., on the ground that they contradict prior
testimony), Amguard should have submitted objections to those specific
paragraphs and explained the basis for those objections (e.g., by citing the
prior testimony it argues the declarants are contradicting). 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Amguard's objections (Nos. 1 to 3). 
Discussion
It is undisputed that this
lawsuit is based on Plaintiffs' insurance claims for loss caused by water
damage on or about September 1, 2021, at their home located at 20343 Lander Dr.
Woodland Hills, CA 91364 (the Property). (Plaintiff's Response to Defendant's
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, filed on December 23, 2024
(UMF), 1.)  
According to the operative Second
Amended Complaint (SAC), "[t]he cause of loss was a burst refrigerator
water supply line in the kitchen, causing significant water damage to the
[Property] and contents therein." (SAC, par. 9; Laabs v. City of Victorville
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253 ["'The pleadings delimit the issues to
be considered on a motion for summary judgment. 
[Citation.]'  [Citation]"].)  The parties allegedly entered into a written
insurance contract, Insurance Policy No. CAHO225556 (Insurance Policy), under
which Plaintiffs would make monthly premium payments and Amguard would provide
insurance coverage and benefits for all covered losses at the Property.  (SAC, par. 9.)  On or about December 3, 2021, Amguard sent
Plaintiffs a settlement letter for their insurance claim stating (among other
things) that it would settle the claim for $83,087.99.  (SAC, par. 15.)  However, Plaintiffs loss estimates totaled
$178,586.80.  (SAC, par. 16.)  Plaintiffs allege that Amguard breached the
Insurance Policy and implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in 24
different ways, including failing to produce Plaintiffs' claim files, failing
to pay Plaintiffs for the loss of use of the Property or additional living
expenses related to their insurance claim, and failing to conduct a reasonable
and timely investigation of Plaintiffs' insurance claim.  (SAC, pars. 76(a)-(x)), 82(a)-(x).) 
Amguard moves for summary
judgment, arguing that there are no triable issues of material fact because
Plaintiffs voided the Insurance Policy by making false statements to the
defendant. 
"'While insurance contracts
have special features, they are still contracts to which the ordinary rules of
contractual interpretation apply. 
[Citation.]'"  (Kavruck v.
Blue Cross of California (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 773, 780.)  "The fundamental goal of contractual
interpretation is to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties.  (Civ. Code, § 1636.)"  (Ibid.)
"Ordinarily, the objective
intent of the contracting parties is a legal question determined solely by
reference to the contract's terms." 
(Wolf v. Walt Disney Pictures & Television (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th
1107, 1126 ("Wolf").) 
"The court generally may not consider extrinsic evidence of any
prior agreement or contemporaneous oral agreement to vary or contradict the
clear and unambiguous terms of a written, integrated contract."  (Ibid.) 

"Extrinsic evidence is
admissible, however, to interpret an agreement when a material term is
ambiguous."  (Wolf, supra, 114
Cal.App.4th at p. 1126; 
"'Where the meaning of the
words used in a contract is disputed, the trial court must provisionally
receive any proffered extrinsic evidence which is relevant to show whether the
contract is reasonably susceptible of a particular meaning.'  [Citations.]"  (Wolf, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p.
1350.)  "Indeed, it is reversible
error for a trial court to refuse to consider such extrinsic evidence on the
basis of the trial court's own conclusion that the language of the contract
appears to be clear and unambiguous on its face.  Even if a contract appears unambiguous on its
face, a latent ambiguity may be exposed by extrinsic evidence which reveals
more than one possible meaning to which the language of the contract is yet reasonably
susceptible."  (Id. at pp.
1185-1186.) 
Where no extrinsic evidence is
offered or there is no material conflict with extrinsic evidence, a court
interprets the contract as a matter of law and applies the ordinary and popular
meaning to the terms.  (See Wolf, supra,
114 Cal.App.4th at p. 1126 ["When there is no material conflict in the
extrinsic evidence, the trial court interprets the contract as a matter of
law"]; Khan v. Shim (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 49, 59 ["As neither party
points us to any extrinsic evidence that would affect the meaning of the provision
at issue, we will apply the ordinary and popular meaning of the terms used by
the parties"].)
"If, however, there is a
conflict in the extrinsic evidence, the factual conflict is to be resolved by
the jury."  (Wolf, supra, 114
Cal.App.4th at p. 1127.)
It is undisputed that the
relevant section of the Insurance Policy stated the following:
R.  Concealment Or Fraud
 . . .
With respect to loss caused by a
peril other than fire, we provide coverage to no 'insureds' under this Policy,
if, whether before or after a loss, an 'insured' has:
Intentionally concealed or
misrepresented any material fact or circumstance;
Engaged in fraudulent conduct; or
Made false statements; relating
to insurance.
(UMF 3.)
None of the parties have
submitted extrinsic evidence explaining what the parties intended any provision
in the Insurance Policy to mean at the time that they entered into the policy. 
Therefore, the Court will
interpret the Insurance Policy (including the one above) as a matter of law. 
Giving the terms their ordinary
and plain meaning, the Court interprets the above provision to mean that
Amguard has no obligation to cover any loss caused by a peril other than fire
if Plaintiffs, as insureds, did any the following "relating to" the
Insurance Policy: (1) intentionally concealed or misrepresented any material
fact or circumstance, (2) engaged in fraudulent conduct, or (3) made false
statements.  The Court agrees with
Amguard that intent is not required for subpart (3) (i.e., made false statements).  Therefore, if Plaintiffs made any false
statements relating to the Insurance Policy regardless of whether or not they
intended to do so, according to the policy, Amguard was not obligated to cover
the loss for the water damage. 
Here, Amguard argues that
Plaintiffs falsely claimed that (1) they had "no kitchen" and were
"without a kitchen," when in fact they had a kitchen and used
it.  The following facts are undisputed.  Plaintiff Candace Bejune (Mrs. Bejune) told
Amguard in a January 19, 2022 email: "We have 4 young children and no
kitchen."  (UMF 7.)  Mrs. Bejune then told Amguard in a February
1, 2022 email: "We are a family of six without a kitchen since
9/1/21."  (UMF 8.)  On February 10, 2022, Mrs. Bejune told
Amguard in an email that "We … have had no workable kitchen since
September 1st of 2021."  (UMF
9.)  On January 20, 2022, Plaintiffs'
counsel sent a letter to Amguard stating that Plaintiffs have "lived in
their home this entire time making due [sic] without a kitchen."  (UMF 10.) 
Plaintiffs also allege in the SAC that they "were without a kitchen."  (UMF 11.) 
Amguard argues those statements were false because (among other things)
Plaintiff Rick Bejune ("Mr. Bejune") testified during his deposition
that the following were fully functional after the water leak: some cabinets in
the kitchen (which Plaintiffs continued to use to store food and utensils);
stove; oven; ice maker; sink; dishwasher; bay window; drawers; wine fridge;
microwave in the kitchen island; a refrigerator in the garage; and a fully
functional kitchen in the second portion of the house that is used by Mr.
Bejune's mother-in-law.  (Declaration of
Christopher D. Lee, filed on October 11, 2024 (Lee Decl.), par. 5; Exhibit 4 -
(Mr. Bejune Depo.), pp. 20:5-14; 129:25-135:2.) 

Amguard also argues that
Plaintiffs falsely stated that their baseline food expenses were $200 per
week.  It is undisputed that the
Additional Living Expenses (ALE) provision in the Insurance Policy states:
"If a loss covered under Section I makes that part of the 'residence
premises' where you reside not fit to live in, we cover any necessary increase
in living expenses incurred by you so that your household can maintain its
normal standard of living."  (UMF
4.)  According to Amguard, Plaintiffs
would want their baseline food expenses to be as low as possible because ALE
would only cover the expenses above that baseline.  (Motion, p. 8:1-4.)  It is undisputed that part of Plaintiffs' ALE
insurance claim was for reimbursement for food expenses.  (UMF 6.) 
Mrs. Bejune told Amguard that Plaintiffs' baseline expenses were roughly
$200 per week.  (Lee Decl., Exhibit 3
(Mrs. Bejune Depo.), p. 39:1-12 [testifying that their baseline expenses were
"roughly $200" per week].) 
Amguard argues that the $200 baseline was false because (1) Plaintiffs
testified that about 90 percent of their pre-incident food expenses were
reflected in their credit and debit cards and (2) according to their debit and
credit card statements, their food expenses were on average more than double at
more than $400 per week.  (Lee Decl.,
par. 10 [defense counsel testifying that he reviewed the statements, created a
summary document listing all charges, and found that 90 percent of Plaintiffs'
total was $362.20 and 100 percent of their baseline food expenses were,
therefore, $402.45].) 
Finally, Amguard argues that
Plaintiffs falsely stated that their refrigerator and freezer were damaged and
needed to be replaced for over $15,000. 
According to the defendant's evidence, on January 20, 2022, Plaintiffs'
counsel sent a letter to Amguard stating: "[Plaintiffs'] sub zero
refrigerators being removed and used in an unleveled condition for over a year
at this point, the sub zero refrigerators are now damaged and will require
replacement.  The Replacement cost for
the two sub zero appliances total $15,525.00."  (Lee Decl., par. 8; Exhibit 7 - a copy of the
letter, p. 2.)  Amguard argues that those
were false statements because Mrs. Bejune testified that she was told
"everything" "was working properly."  (Lee Decl., Exhibit 3 (Mrs. Bejune Depo.), p.
12:9-18.)  Further, Mr. Bejune testified
that if anyone assessed the Sub-Zero refrigerator (which had been removed from
the house and placed in the garage), and informed Plaintiffs that it was fully
functional, Plaintiffs would put it back in the house.  (Lee Decl., Exhibit 4 (Mr. Bejune Depo.), p.
182:13-25.)  However, no one came to
inspect the Sub-Zero after it was taken to the garage.  (Mr. Bejune Depo., p. 183:1-3.)  Therefore, Amguard argues, Plaintiffs'
statement that their Sub-Zero was damaged and needed to be replaced was a false
statement.  
The Court finds that through the
above evidence, Amguard has met its initial burden of showing that it did not
owe Plaintiffs any coverage caused by the water damage because Plaintiffs made
false statements regarding their kitchen, baseline food expenses, and
refrigerator. 
Therefore, the burden shifts to
Plaintiff to show a triable issue of material fact exists as to Amguard's
defense. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that the water damage "rendered the kitchen incomplete, unsafe, and
unusable for its intended and pre-incident purpose."  (Opposition, p. 7:10-11.)  According to Mr. Bejune, "[o]n August
26, 2021, [they] discovered water pooling from the base of our built-in
Sub-Zero refrigerator and freezer.  The
leak caused serious damage to the kitchen floors, the cabinets, and the drywall
behind the units.  Shortly after removing
the refrigerator and freezer, [Mr. Bejune] noticed a vertical crack in the
drywall above the units that ran all the way up to the vaulted ceilings.  [That] crack was alarming and raised
immediate concerns about the structural integrity of our home."  (Declaration of Rick Bejune, filed on
December 23, 2024 
(Mr. Bejune Decl.), par. 4.)  Plaintiffs claim that "Servpro" is
a professional restoration service. 
(Opposition, p. 16:16-17.)  Mrs.
Bejune testified during her deposition "that Servpro had said they were
worried about structural issues.  They
also wanted to remove all the kitchen cabinets and the kitchen island and the
flooring.  And [Plaintiffs also] had this
giant hole in … that went to the subfloor to dirt in the middle of [their]
kitchen."  (Declaration of Eileen
Keusseyan (Keusseyan Decl.), par. 8; Exhibit C (Plaintiffs' Mrs. Bejune Depo.
Transcript), p. 54: 7-13.)  Mrs. Bejune
further testified that, for a family of six, not having a refrigerator or
fridge and freezer in the kitchen where breast milk could be stored, was
equivalent to not having a "working kitchen."  (Plaintiffs' Mrs. Bejune Depo. Transcript,
pp. 105:13-107:6.)  
With regard to the baseline food
expenses, Mrs. Bejune admits that she realized that her actual food expenses
were higher than $200 per week, but at the time she informed Amguard's
representative (Nicole Ham) that the food expenses were approximately $200 per
week, she made that estimate in good faith and did not review any documents or
conduct a thorough calculation when asked. 
(Declaration of Candace Bejune, filed on December 23, 2024, par. 14.) 
As for the Sub-Zero appliances,
Plaintiffs argue that those appliances were built into custom cabinetry to
remain level and operational, but became unsafe after they were removed, placed
in the garage, and held by a bungee cord attached to a storage rack.  (Opposition, p. 13:16-17; Keusseyan Decl 8;
Exhibit C (Plaintiffs Bejune Depo. Transcript), p. 14:13-15:4 [testifying that
Plaintiffs were told not to use the Sub-Zero appliances "because they are
top-heavy and not bolted into anything. 
They're not level].) 
The Court finds Plaintiffs have
met their burden of showing triable issues of material exist regarding whether
their statements regarding their kitchen, expenses, and Sub-Zero appliances
were false.  Indeed, Amguard has not
produced extrinsic evidence showing that its definitions accurately depict the
parties' intent at the time they entered the Insurance Policy (e.g., that  (1) the word "kitchen" meant some
or most appliances in the kitchen were working, (2) the phrase "baseline
food expenses" did not include an "approximation" of those
expenses, and (3) "damage" to Sub-Zero appliances did not include the
appliances removal from their built-in custom cabinetry).  Therefore, the Court is not prepared to rule
that as a matter of law Plaintiffs made false statements regarding their
kitchen, expenses, and Sub-Zero appliances within the meaning of the Insurance
Policy. 
For those reasons, the Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 