 Case Number:  24VECV02362    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  T 24VECV02362 ANHARI V
ALAMIRAD
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendant Hanna Anhari’s Demurrer to
the Cross-Complaint filed 11/4/2024 is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as
to the causes of action for defamation, libel, slander per se, emotional
distress, and “mal-practice” and OVERRULED as to the “request for damages”.
Cross-Defendant Hanna Anhari’s
Motion to Strike Portions of the Cross-Complaint is MOOT as to the causes of
action for defamation, libel, slander per se, emotional distress, and
“mal-practice” and GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the “request for
damages”.
No opposition was timely filed.
The First Amended Cross-complaint
filed on 12/31/2024 was untimely and is stricken.  The last date for it to be filed was 12/23/2024.
The Cross-complaint against Cohan
filed 12/31/2024 is stricken as there was no authorization from the court to
file it.
The five Cross-complaints filed
on 1/6/2025 are stricken as there was no authorization from the court to file
them.
Introduction 
Cross-Defendant Hanna Anhari
(Cross-Defendant) demurred to Cross-Complainant Farzan Alamirad’s
(Cross-Complainant) Cross-Complaint.  The
demurrer placed into issue the five causes of action (COA) that Cross-Complainant
appeared to have alleged: defamation, libel, slander per se, emotional
distress, mal-practice, and a request for damages.  Cross-Defendant concurrently filed a motion
to strike seeking to strike the alleged five COAs placed into issue in the
demurrer and the request for punitive damages.
Cross-Complainant’s opposition
was due December 23, 2024 and none was filed.
Discussion 
Cross-Defendant argued that each
COA failed to identify against whom the COA is alleged.  Without such identification, Cross-Defendant
argued that it cannot confirm which COAs are being levied against
Cross-Defendant.  Each cause of action
must be numbered separately and its nature stated (e.g., “First Cause of Action
for Fraud”). Where there is more than one plaintiff or defendant, the names of
the plaintiffs asserting the particular cause of action and the defendants
against whom the cause of action is asserted must appear (e.g., “by Plaintiffs
Jones and Smith against all Defendants”; or “by all Plaintiffs against
Defendant Smith”).  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.112.)  Cross-Complainant
identified approximately five COAs but failed to separate number and separate
state the nature of each COA. 
Cross-Complainant identified six cross-defendants in the title page of
the Cross-Complaint.  Without compliance
with formatting rules, the allegations of the Cross-Complaint are uncertain and
insufficiently pled.  On this defect
alone, there is grounds to sustain the demurrer.  
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer
asserted that the defamation COA lacks pleading to identify the type of
defamation and thus is insufficiently supported with fact pleading.  
Cross-Defendant argued that the
libel COA failed to allege facts showing the false or defamatory writing made
by Cross-Defendant.  Cross-Defendant
argued that the one alleged publication is against Cross-Defendant’s “friend”
for sharing a “non-related video recording of a faltering TV Station from 35
years ago” regarding prior medical malpractice and sexual harassment
lawsuits.  Cross-Defendant argued that
the slander per se COA failed to allege any facts to support the five
statutorily defined slanderous statements. 
(Civ. Code, sec. 46.)  As to the
“emotional distress” COA, Cross-Defendant argued that the titled COA is not
recognized and it is unclear if the claim is based upon intentional or
negligent conduct.  Cross-Defendant
further argued that the Cross-Complaint failed to allege any facts to support
the pleading elements for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Cross-Defendant argued that the emotional
distress claim is duplicative of the other tort claims.  To the extent Cross-Complainant alleges
malpractice, Cross-Defendant argues that the claim appears to be for legal
malpractice and alleged against Cross-Defendant’s divorce attorney.  Cross-Defendant argued that the malpractice
COA is not alleged with sufficient facts to support the pleading elements.  The pleading must contain “a statement of the
facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”   (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 425.10.)  Although Cross-Complainant alleged, in
narrative form, the events of Cross-Complainant’s personal and work life as
related to Hanna Anhari and others, the failure to separate out each COA makes
it difficult to determine how each fact allegation is relevant to each of the
pleading elements of each COA.  It is not
upon the Court or opposing party to properly organize the pleading so that each
COA is shown to be properly pled as to each pleading element with supportive
facts.  Because Plaintiff failed to organize
the fact allegations so that they constitute a COA, the demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is persuasive.
The demurrer to the COAs for
defamation, libel, slander per se, emotional distress, and “mal-practice” is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the
damage allegation is improper because a demurrer places into issue the legal
sufficiency of a cause of action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., sec. 430.10(e).)  A request
for damages is not a COA and not proper for a demurrer.
The demurrer to the damage
request is OVERRULED.
Cross-Defendant moved to strike
each of the five COAs.  With the
sustaining of the concurrently held demurrer to the five COAs, the motion to
strike the five COAs is MOOT.
Cross-Defendant moved to strike
Cross-Complainant’s request for damages. 
Preliminarily, it is noted that the Cross-Complaint lacks a Prayer
identifying the relief Cross-Complainant is requesting.  Further, each COA failed to allege the
damages being requested.  The first page
of the Cross-Complaint makes a singular reference to punitive damages.  Due to the formatting defect reviewed above
and the lack of a prayer, the singular request for punitive damages on page of
the Cross-Complaint is conclusory and lacks any fact pleading to support the
request for punitive damages.  Because
the request for punitive damages is insufficiently supported with fact
allegations, the motion to strike is persuasive.
The motion to strike the request
for damages is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 

 IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.