 Case Number:  21VECV00059    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  T VALLE V EBS 21VECV00059
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Plaintiff Sagam Valle’s Motion
for Approval of Private Attorneys General Act is CONTINUED. 
Introduction

On
February 16, 2021, Plaintiff Sagam Valle (“Plaintiff”) filed his operative
First 
Amended
Complaint against Defendant EBS Foods, LLC, for Enforcement Under the Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) (Labor Code §§ 2698, et seq.), asserting a
single cause of action for civil penalties under PAGA for violations of
multiple provisions of the California Labor Code and applicable Industrial
Welfare Commission Wage Orders. 
On
January 11, 2022, the parties participated in a full-day mediation conducted by
Jeffre Krivis, Esq. Though the parties were unable to reach a resolution during
the mediation session, they continued negotiating after the mediation and
ultimately this settlement was reached in March of 2024. The terms of
settlement were finalized in the Private Attorneys General Act Settlement
Agreement and Release (“Settlement Agreement”), a copy of which is attached to
the Declaration of Tara Zabehi (“Zabehi Decl.”) as Exhibit 2.
Now
before the Court is Plaintiff’s Motion for Approval of PAGA Settlement
Agreement. The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion

The
Motion for Approval set for hearing on January 14, 2025 must be continued for
counsel to provide a settlement which is properly filed. All documents
electronically filed must comply with the Rules of Court, including 2.256(b)(3)
which specifies "The document must be text searchable when technologically
feasible without impairment of the document's image." The same search
functionality is required by this Court's First Amended General Order re
electronic filing, filed May 3, 2019. The Settlement Agreement attached as
Exhibit 2 to the December 4, 2024, Declaration of Zabehi, is not text
searchable. Counsel is to refile a fully text searchable Settlement Agreement
before the Court can proceed with approval. 
Notwithstanding,
the Court has reviewed the declaration of Zabehi and finds that there is no
proof of submission of the Settlement Agreement to the Labor & Workforce
Development Agency (“LWDA”). (Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l)(2) “[t]he superior
court shall review and approve any settlement of any civil action filed
pursuant to this part. The proposed settlement shall be submitted to the [LWDA]
at the same time that it is submitted to the court.” ) Further, the declaration
of Zabehi does not appear to include a discussion of the maximum and realistic
recovery figures of each claim asserted in the operative complaint. (Kullar v.
Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 116, 130 “The most important
factor is the strength of the case for plaintiffs on the merits, balanced
against the amount offered in settlement.”) Lastly, a proposed notice attached
to the Settlement Agreement appears to be missing; there is, however, a “Cover
Letter” attached as Exhibit A to the [Proposed] Order and Judgment, but it is
missing key information such as the terms of the settlement, the proposed
deductions, and the procedures and deadlines, and the release is not verbatim
to the releases in the Settlement Agreement. Counsel should resolve the
foregoing in addition to refiling a fully text searchable Settlement Agreement.

The
continued hearing date is ________ at ____ a.m. with updated/corrected papers
filed no later than ______.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK
TO GIVE NOTICE.