  Case Number:  22CHCV00276    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-19-24
Case #22CHCV00276,
Iris Arnold, et al. vs. Brian Bauer, et al.
Trial Date: 11-4-24
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Iris Arnold, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Granada Hills Charter
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs request
leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint
 
RULING:
Motion for leave to amend granted
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On April 22,
2022, Plaintiffs Iris Arnold, et al. (Plaintiffs) filed their original
complaint. Plaintiffs filed this action because they were fired from their jobs
at Defendant Granada Hills Charter (Defendant).
 
The parties are
currently conducting discovery. Trial is currently set for November 4, 2024,
after being delayed due to mediation.
 
On March 4,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave to file a fourth amended complaint
(4AC). Plaintiffs seek to add one new cause of action to their complaint, as
well as requests for emotional damages and some additional factual allegations.
Defendant primarily oppose Plaintiffs’ motion on the basis that Plaintiffs misrepresent
the circumstances surrounding the requested amendments. First, Defendant argues
that Plaintiffs should have already known about the FEHA cause of action for
failure to engage in the interactive process that they seek to add. Next, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs misrepresent what the parties agreement was concerning emotional
damages. Defendant also argues that it would be prejudiced if Plaintiffs were
allowed to amend their complaint. Finally, Defendant argues that the Court
should use its discretion to deny Plaintiffs’ motion.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that the Court should use its discretion to allow
Plaintiffs to amend their complaint. Next, they argue that Defendant will not
be prejudiced if they are allowed to amend their complaint. Finally, Plaintiffs
argue that they did not waive the damages that they are now requesting.
 
ANALYSIS
Courts are
authorized, in their discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) CCP § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge, at any time before
or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such
terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any pleading . . .” (CCP §
576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to file an amended pleading
rests in the court’s sound discretion.
 
Leave to amend
is to be liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including
trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see
also County of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern
County (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be
granted amendment even at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of
liberally granting amendments at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show
both actual prejudice and inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at
487.) Prejudice exists where an amendment to a complaint would result in a
delay of trial; loss of critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and
increased burden of discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
 
Trial in this
case is over six months away. Defendant would not be prejudiced in that regard
if leave to amend were granted. Additionally, Plaintiffs represent that the FEHA
cause of action that they wish to add to the complaint was learned during the
course of discovery.
 
The parties also
argue over whether they had an agreement concerning the emotional distress
damages. Whether they had an agreement does not really matter for purposes of a
motion for leave to amend. What matters is whether Defendant would be
prejudiced by their inclusion and whether Plaintiffs unreasonably delayed in
adding them.
 
Defendant
indicates that no independent medical examination of Plaintiffs has been done
because they previously indicated that they would not be seeking emotional
damages. Defendant appears to argue that it would be prejudiced by allowing
Plaintiffs to add a request for emotional damages at this time. As recently as
January 2024, Plaintiffs indicated in discovery that they were only seeking
economic damages and not emotional damages. (Opposition at p. 11.)
 
Defendant has
provided an email conversation showing that Plaintiffs voluntarily indicated
that they did not wish to pursue the emotional damages. (Westmoreland Decl.,
Ex. A.) However, Plaintiffs argue in their reply that they did not seek the
emotional damages as a compromise in exchange for Defendant not challenging the
sincerity of Plaintiffs’ religious beliefs or seeking information concerning
Plaintiffs’ medical conditions. (Reply at p. 5.) After Defendant obtained new
counsel, Defendant went back on this agreement and began seeking information
related to Plaintiffs’ religious beliefs and medical conditions. (Supplemental
Street Decl., ¶ 25.) Plaintiffs, in turn, decided to seek emotional damages.
The Court does not find that Plaintiffs seeking emotional damages would
prejudice Defendant or cause undue delay. Any discovery necessary for the claim
for emotional damages can be done before trial.
 
Next, Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs have not complied with the requirements of California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(b) in seeking to add the new FEHA cause of action.
That rule requires that a separate declaration accompanying the motion for
leave to amend must include when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered and the reasons why the request for amendment was not
made earlier. (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
However,
Plaintiffs indicated in their original motion that the FEHA cause of action
that they wish to add, failure to engage in the interactive process, is based
on much of the same evidence as the other causes of action. In fact, Plaintiffs
argue that this new version of their complaint actually narrows the issues.
Plaintiffs indicate that the information supporting this new cause of action
was learned during discovery. (Amended Street Decl., ¶ 11.) This should be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of CRC Rule 3.1324(b).
 
There is a
policy of liberally granting leave to amend. Because Defendant as been unable
to show prejudice or inexcusable delay, and because trial is still over six
months away, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a fourth
amended complaint.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file a fourth amended complaint is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.