 Case Number:  22CHCV01520    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-19-24
Case #22CHCV01520,
Marvin Ayala, et al. vs. Ford Motor Company, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Marvin Ayala and Kathia Ayala Nunez
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Ford Motor Company and Galpin Ford
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs are requesting
attorney fees in the amount of $61,711.00, plus $4,056.64 in costs, from
Defendants.
 
RULING: Motion
for attorney fees is granted. No costs will be awarded at this time.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiffs Marvin
Ayala and Kathia Ayala (Plaintiffs) had sued Defendants Ford Motor Company and
Galpin Ford (Defendants) for causes of action related to the Song-Beverly Act. On
March 8, 2024, the parties settled the case for a total of $73,399.00.
Defendants made the offer to settle, and Plaintiffs accepted. The Settlement
Agreement also provided for attorney fees and costs reasonably incurred by
Plaintiffs, provided that the parties were unable to agree on the amount. After
the settlement was agreed upon, the parties could not agree on the amount of
attorney fees. Thereafter, Plaintiffs filed this motion.
 
Plaintiffs are
requesting $61,711.00 in attorney fees from Defendants. Plaintiffs argue in
their motion that the attorney fees and hourly rates are reasonable.
Plaintiffs’ evidence in support of their request for attorney fees are a
declaration from their attorney, Michael Saeedian, and billing statements that
show which attorney worked on a task, what the task was, how much time was
spent on the task, the attorney’s hourly rate, and the amount of money for the
task. (Saeedian Decl., Ex. A.) The Saeedian Declaration also includes a table
which shows the hourly rates of the attorneys who worked on the case and their
hourly rates. (Saeedian Decl., ¶ 26.)
 
Michael
Saeedian’s hourly rate was $695 for 45.7 hours for a total of $31,761.50. Adina
Ostoia’s hourly rate was $695 for 0.1 hours for a total of $69.50. Christopher
Urner’s hourly rate was $525 for 39.2 hours for a total of $20,580.00. Jorge L.
Acosta’s hourly rate was $250 for 37.2 hours for a total of $9,300.00.
 
The total lodestar
was calculated by multiplying each of these attorney’s hourly rate by their
hours worked then adding them all together. The total hours spent on the case
was 122.2 hours. The total lodestar amount, as previously noted, is $61,711.00.
 
Plaintiffs have
also requested costs in the amount of $4,056.64. However, costs are awarded
pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700. Costs will be addressed
through Plaintiffs’ memorandum of costs at the appropriate time.
 
ANALYSIS
A prevailing
party is entitled to recover its attorneys’ fees when authorized by contract,
statute, or law. (See CCP § 1033.5(a)(10); Cal. Civ. Code § 1717(a).) “A
successful party means a prevailing party, and [a party] may be considered
prevailing parties for attorney’s fees purposes if they succeed on any
significant issue in litigation which achieves some of the benefit the parties
sought in bringing suit.” (Bowman v. City of Berkeley (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 173, 178.)
 
Plaintiffs are
the prevailing party by virtue of the fact that the parties settled in
Plaintiffs’ favor via the Settlement Agreement. Plaintiffs have requested a
total of $61,711.00 in attorney fees.
 
Defendants
oppose Plaintiffs’ motion on the basis that Plaintiffs are only entitled to
allowable and reasonable attorney fees. Defendants argue that the attorney fees
were unreasonably incurred because Ford complied with its obligations under the
Song-Beverly Act. Next, Defendants argue that the hourly rates of Plaintiffs’
attorneys are excessive. Finally, Defendants argue that the claimed time
incurred is unreasonable.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that Defendants are asking the Court to apply improper
legal standards. Next, Plaintiffs argue that a post-litigation settlement offer
does not cut off fees. Plaintiffs also argue that Ford did not comply with its
obligations under the Song-Beverly Act. Finally, Plaintiffs argue that the fees
and rates of the attorneys are reasonable and should be awarded in full.
 
Defendants
argue in their opposition that the Song-Beverly Act only entitles Plaintiffs to
attorney fees for “actual time expended.” (Civ. Code § 1794(d).) Defendants
argue that this means that analysis as to whether the fees and costs sought are
reasonable under the circumstances is required. (Levy v. Toyota Motor Sales,
USA, Inc. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 807, 816.) Next, Defendant argues that once
objection to the fees has been raised, then Plaintiffs’ counsel bears the
burden of showing that the fees were reasonably necessary, and the Court has
the discretion to reduce fees awarded. (En Palm, LLC v Teitler Family Trust
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 770, 775.)
 
In determining
the reasonableness of fees, courts look to the factors from Church of
Scientology v. Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, disapproved on other
grounds by Equilon Enters. v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53,
68 n.5. The factors from Wollersheim are (1) the amount of money
involved in the litigation; (2) the nature of the litigation and its difficulty
and the intricacies and importance of the litigation; (3) the skill required
and employed in handling the litigation, the necessity for skilled legal
training and ability in trying the case, and counsel’s education and experience
in the particular type of work involved; (4) the attention given to the case; (5)
the success of the attorneys efforts; and (6) the time consumed by the
litigation. (Id.)
 
Defendants argue
that Plaintiffs’ attorney fees were unreasonably incurred because Ford had offered
to repurchase the vehicle. Defendants argue that, rather than except this
offer, Plaintiffs pursued this litigation. It is unclear what Defendants mean
by this, or whether there was a pre-litigation repurchase offer, as Plaintiffs’
reply seems to indicate that Defendants were referring to the Settlement
Agreement. Additionally, a post-litigation complaint settlement offer in a
Song-Beverly has been rejected as evidence of “compliance” with the law. (See Santana
v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 334, 348, “[Upon a vehicle
manufacturer's failure to honor a warranty, the manufacturer must “promptly”
make an offer of repurchase or restitution. (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd.
(d)(2).) Not years later during litigation.”].) Defendant’s offer to settle
while litigation is ongoing is not evidence of compliance.
 
Defendants also
argue that Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ hourly rates are unreasonable and that
Plaintiffs’ have provided no evidence justifying the hourly rates. Defendants
have also not provided any evidence that the hourly rates are unreasonable.
Instead, Defendants just call the hourly rate of $695 “exorbitant” without any
evidence to back up this claim. (Opposition at p. 6.) Given the Court’s
discretion and experience, the Court finds that the hourly rates indicated by
Plaintiffs are reasonable.
 
Next,
Defendants argue that the lodestar amount should be reduced by 54.4 hours.
Defendants argue that the time spent deciding whether to represent the Ayalas
should be reduced, the time for administrative work performed by Jorge Acosta
should be reduced, the time spent on drafting certain documents should be
reduced, and the time for the motion for summary adjudication should be
reduced.
 
Defendants
argue that the motion for summary adjudication was just a way to inflate the
attorney fees in this case. Plaintiffs argue in response that the motion was reasonable
and necessary given the evidence that Plaintiffs had. Furthermore, whether a
motion was successful or reasonable is not the kind of hair-splitting that a
court needs to engage in when deciding motions for attorney fees.
 
Next, as for
the 2.7 hours for the time spent deciding whether to represent the Ayalas,
Plaintiffs argue in their reply that the Song-Beverly Act allows for attorney
fees for the “commencement and prosecution” of a case. (Civ. Code 1794(d).) The
Court will allow Plaintiffs to request this 2.7 hours.
 
Plaintiffs also
argue in their reply that all of Defendants arguments regarding administrative
work rely upon federal cases. They also argue that attorney fees requests that
include administrative tasks are allowable. Necessary overhead support services
that secretaries and paralegals provide to attorneys may be included in an
attorney fees award. (City of Oakland v. McCullough (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 1, 7.) More generally, it has been said that “necessary support
services for attorneys, e.g., secretarial and paralegal services, are
includable within an award of attorney fees” (Salton Bay Marina, Inc. v.
Imperial Irrigation Dist. (1985) 172 Cal.App.3d 914, 951), and that among
the various factors pertinent to determining what constitutes a reasonable
attorney fee is “the overhead expense of the attorney” (Estate of Lanza
(1964) 229 Cal.App.2d 720, 726).) That being said, the Court believes that some
of the paralegal fees related to finalizing and serving documents should be
cut. Rather than determine that amount now, the Court requests that the parties
prepare arguments for the hearing regarding the paralegal fees.
 
Finally, the
amounts of time that Defendants indicated as being excessive for certain
documents (the complaint, discovery, etc.) are not present in the billing
statements. It appears that Defendants may have taken it upon themselves to add
together different billing lines to come up with these amounts. The Court
rejects Defendants’ arguments concerning the billing for these documents.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion for attorney fees is granted. The Court will determine the amount to
award upon hearing arguments related to the paralegal fees. Costs will be
addressed with the memorandum of costs.
 
Moving party to
give notice.