 Case Number:  22CHCV01272    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
4-19-24
Case
#22CHCV01272, Jeannette Diaz Martinez, et al. vs. American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.
Trial
Date: 7-15-24
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Jeannette Diaz Martinez and Ivan De Jesus Zamudio
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendant’s Answers to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production
 
RULING:
Parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On December 1, 2022, Plaintiffs Jeannette Diaz
Martinez and Ivan De Jesus Zamudio (Plaintiffs) filed this lemon law case against
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Defendant). 
 
Plaintiffs
propounded discovery on Defendant on December 13, 2023. On December 18, 2023, Defendant
served responses to Plaintiffs’ requests for production. On March 22, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel further responses to the requests for
production. Plaintiffs argue that all of Defendants responses to Request Nos. 1
through 101 were inadequate, and Defendant’s objections were without merit.
 
There
is a dispute between the parties over the sufficiency of the meet and confer.
Defendant argues in its opposition that Plaintiffs failed to conduct a good
faith meet and confer because all Plaintiffs did was send Defendant a
boilerplate meet and confer letter that ignored Defendant’s substantive
responses. Then the parties attempted to conduct a teleconference on March 21,
2024, but after only trying to call once, Plaintiffs filed this motion the next
day. It appears that there was never direct communication between the parties
regarding the sufficiency of Defendant’s responses to the requests for
production.
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time. The Court orders the parties to meet and
confer directly, not by email or letter. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court.
The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments. 
 
ORDER

1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer.
 
2.
The parties shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described
above. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made.
 
3.
The dates for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the hearing
on this motion.
 
4.
Moving party to provide notice.