 Case Number:  23CHCV03595    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  F51  MAY 31, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV03595    Motion Filed: 2/16/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Paradise Ranch, LLC; and Newport  Pacific Capital Company, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs  Brigido Acevedo Ortega, et al. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  move to strike references relating to punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied. Defendants to file and serve their  answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint within 30 days.   BACKGROUND    This is a habitability  action in which “Plaintiffs are [88] current and former residents of and/or  owners of mobilehomes located in Paradise Ranch Estates MHP, a mobilehome park  located at 36200 N. Paradise Ranch Rd., Castaic, California 91384” (the  “Park”). (Compl. ¶ 1.) Defendants are the owners and managers of the Park. (Id.  at ¶¶ 7–8.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants negligently maintained the  Park, causing such habitability problems as inadequate sewage, draining, and  electrical systems, poor walkway conditions, and gas leaks. (Id. at ¶  15.)   On 11/22/23,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging against Defendants the following  causes of action: (1) Nuisance; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Breach of the  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Negligence; (5) Breach of  Statutes; (6) Breach of Warranty of Habitability; (7) Breach of Covenant of  Quiet Enjoyment; (8) Breach of Unfair Competition Law; and (9) Declaratory and  Injunctive Relief.   On 2/16/24,  Defendants filed the instant motion to strike. On 5/20/24, Plaintiffs filed  their opposition. On 5/24/24, Defendants filed their reply. // // // ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,  false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,  subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn  or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order  of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the  face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)   A.    Meet  and Confer   Defendants’ counsel declares that on 2/12/24, she sent a  meet and confer email to Plaintiffs’ counsel raising the issues discussed in  the instant motion. (Decl. of Allision A. Marchi ¶ 2.) Counsel for the parties  met and conferred telephonically on 2/13/24, but were unable to informally  resolve the issues. (Ibid.) The Court therefore finds that counsel has  satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a).   B.     Punitive  Damages   Punitive  damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression  by clear and convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is  defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct  carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of  others. (Id. at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal.,  Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct  subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the  person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,  deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to  deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)   1.       Malice, Fraud, or Oppression   Punitive  damages must be supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations,  devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that  parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court  (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.  Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)   In the  complaint, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “Defendants forced Plaintiffs to  live in filth and degradation by ignoring these [substandard] conditions.  Defendants had the financial ability to abate and remedy the above [habitability]  problems, but out of greed deliberately chose to let Plaintiffs suffer rather  than make any repairs.” (Compl. ¶ 21.)   Here,  Defendants argue that the Complaint “contains no specific allegations to  allege, for example there are no specific allegations of when Defendants had  notice of the alleged bad acts, how Defendants approved or ratifies said bad  acts, or how they were specifically done with the intent to harm Plaintiffs.” (MTS  11:6–9.) Defendants contend that “Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to advance a  single factual allegation against either particular entity itself that would  support its purported ill will, despicable conduct, or deceit.” (Id. at 13:28–14:2.)   In  opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently met the pleading  standard for punitive damages because “the Complaint contains five (5) full  pages of specific facts relating to the horrific habitability-related  conditions in the Park, including, inter alia, repeat raw sewage overflows,  poor water quality causing physical illness, significant drainage problems  causing severe damage to homes, and the poor state of the Park’s common areas.”  (Pls.’ Opp. 2:17–20, citing Compl. ¶ 15.) “Plaintiffs allege that ‘Plaintiffs  notified Defendants of [poor Park conditions identified in ¶15] and made  numerous complaints to Defendants and local governmental agencies about the  foregoing ....’. … Plaintiffs also allege that Defendants ‘were cited for  drainage related violations by government entities, including the Department of  Housing and Community Development (‘HCD’)’… Based on this express knowledge,  Defendants advised the relevant Plaintiffs that their spaces were not suitable  for habitation, offered to relocate them, and then failed to do so.” (Id. at  5:8–14, citing Compl. ¶¶ 15(d)(ii), 19–20.)   On reply,  Defendants argue that “nowhere in the Complaint do Plaintiffs allege any facts  regarding dates, places, or occasions when the alleged wrongful behavior  occurred.” (Defs.’ Reply 3:12–13.) Defendants further assert that “the alleged  circumstances do not demonstrate an evil motive on Defendants’ part, as is  necessary to support an award of punitive damages.” (Id. at 3:23–24,  citing Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1210–1211.).”   Based on a  review of Plaintiffs’ factual allegations, the Court finds that the Complaint,  as pled, sufficiently pleads a basis for punitive damages against Defendants  based on malice or oppression. As Plaintiffs contend, the Complaint  sufficiently alleges that Defendants had actual knowledge about the substandard  conditions at the Park, yet failed “to provide and maintain the Park in good  working order and condition.” (Compl. at ¶ 22.) This alleged conduct  sufficiently supports a prayer for punitive damages as a “conscious disregard  for the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).)   Accordingly,  the Court finds that at this stage, Defendants’ alleged conduct as pled may be  considered malicious and oppressive as defined by Civil Code section 3294.  Further investigation of the merits of Plaintiffs’ allegations may be resolved  through the discovery process.   2.       Employer Liability   “An  employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages … based upon acts of an  employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the  unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of  the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct  for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,  fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge  and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,  fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent  of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).)   In their  complaint, Plaintiffs name three individuals who were managing agents of Defendants  during the relevant time period. (Compl. ¶¶ 9–12.) Plaintiffs further allege  that “each Defendant authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct of its agents  and/or employees or was personally guilty of oppression or malice, and the  authorization, ratification or act of oppression or malice was on the part of a  member, manager, officer, director and/or managing agent of each Defendant.” (Id.  at ¶¶ 21, 42, 83, 91.) Specifically, “Defendants’ managing agents,  including ZARNEGIN, FAIRBROTHER, AND SULLIVAN, adopted and/or approved  Defendants’ employees’ conduct after it occurred by accepting what they did  without any reprimand or changing the manner and procedures by which its  employees perform in similar situations such as the ones involving Plaintiffs.”  (Id. at ¶ 22.)   Here, Defendants  argue that the Complaint fails to “provide information regarding when  Defendants had notice of the alleged bad acts, how Defendants approved or  ratified said bad acts, or how they were specifically done with the intent to  harm Plaintiffs.” (MTS 14:6–8.) In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have  “plead ultimate facts demonstrating that Zarnegin, Fairbrother, and Sullivan,  as Defendants’ officers, directors, and/or managing agents, exercised  substantial discretionary authority over vital aspects of corporate  decision-making, including decisions that determine corporate policy including  deciding the budget for maintenance and repairs. … Zarnegin, Fairbrother, and  Sullivan's actions demonstrate they intentionally and deliberately chose not to  provide and maintain the Park in good working order and condition, thereby  consciously disregarding Plaintiffs’ rights and safety, and intentionally  violating the MRL.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:1–8, citing Compl. ¶¶ 9–10, 15(d)(ii); 19–22;  40–43; 81–84; 89–92.)   Upon review  of the Plaintiffs’ factual allegations in the Complaint, the Court agrees with  Plaintiffs that they have sufficiently alleged “that Defendants consciously  disregarded Plaintiffs’ rights and safety by and through, inter alias 1) their  awareness of the multitude of significant problems in the Park, and 2) their  deliberate failure to fix them, despite their awareness of the resulting harm  to Plaintiffs (including, but not limited to, bodily injury and monetary  damages).” (Id. at 7:15–19.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that at this stage, Plaintiffs have sufficiently  alleged that Defendants ratified/approved of the allegedly wrongful conduct by their  agents and/or employees. The Court again notes that further investigation of  the merits of Plaintiffs’ allegations may be resolved through the discovery  process. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike portions of  Plaintiffs’ complaint referencing punitive damages.   CONCLUSION    The motion to  strike is denied. Defendants to file and serve their answer to Plaintiffs’  complaint within 30 days.