 Case Number:  23STCV28359    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  14 Levings v. Choice HotelsCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
has improperly used “pen register” software to track his internet activity.
 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his Complaint for Violation of Penal Code § 638.51 against
Defendants Choice Hotels International, Inc. dba www.choicehotels.com (“Choice
Hotels”). 
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendant Choice
Hotels now demurs to the TAC on the grounds that it fails to state facts
sufficient to support the cause of action.
 
Decision
 
            Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. Exhibits A-B do not appear to be
relevant to the dispute at hand. Exhibit C is a trial court ruling from a
different department. Trial court rulings in other cases are not relevant to
the facts of this case and cannot be cited as precedent. See Budrow v.
Dave & Buster’s of California, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 875,
884-885.
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Discussion
 
            Penal Code
§ 638.51 provides as follows:
 
“(a) Except as provided in
subdivision (b), a person may not install or use a pen register or a trap and
trace device without first obtaining a court order pursuant to Section 638.52
or 638.53.
(b) A provider of electronic or
wire communication service may use a pen register or a trap and trace device
for any of the following purposes:
(1) To operate, maintain, and test
a wire or electronic communication service.
(2) To protect the rights or
property of the provider.
(3) To protect users of the
service from abuse of service or unlawful use of service.
(4) To record the fact that a wire
or electronic communication was initiated or completed to protect the provider,
another provider furnishing service toward the completion of the wire
communication, or a user of that service, from fraudulent, unlawful, or abusive
use of service.
(5) If the consent of the user of
that service has been obtained.
(c) A violation of this section is
punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500),
or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year, or by
imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by both that fine
and imprisonment.
(d) A good faith reliance on an
order issued pursuant to Section 638.52, or an authorization made pursuant to
Section 638.53, is a complete defense to a civil or criminal action brought
under this section or under this chapter.”
 
            Penal Code
§ 638.50(b) defines a “pen register” as follows:
 
“(b) “Pen register” means a device
or process that records or decodes dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling
information transmitted by an instrument or facility from which a wire or
electronic communication is transmitted, but not the contents of a communication.
“Pen register” does not include a device or process used by a provider or
customer of a wire or electronic communication service for billing, or
recording as an incident to billing, for communications services provided by
such provider, or a device or process used by a provider or customer of a wire
communication service for cost accounting or other similar purposes in the
ordinary course of its business.”
 
Pursuant to Penal Code
§ 637.2, a victim may bring a civil suit against a violator and seek the
following remedies: (1) the greater of $5000 or treble actual damages, and/or
(2) an injunction. Pursuant to Penal Code § 637.2(c) permits a plaintiff
to bring such a suit even if they have no “actual damages.”
 
Defense challenges the pleading
here on two separate grounds. First, they argue that Plaintiff has not alleged
any facts to show that Defendant actually used a pen register. Second, they contend
that Plaintiff consented to the use of a pen register. Neither argument can
succeed at this stage.
 
On the first point, Plaintiff has
pled (at paragraphs 16-17 of his complaint) that Defendant “deployed a software
device and process” which first recorded the information being transmitted by
Plaintiff’s device, and then used that information to install tracking code on
Plaintiff’s device. That is sufficient to describe a pen register as defined in
Section 638.50(b), and the illegal use of such a pen register as prohibited in
Section 638.51(a). Plaintiff is only obliged to plead these ultimate facts; a
detailed description of the software and the precise mechanism it employs are
evidentiary facts which need not be included. C.W. Johnson & Sons, Inc.
v. Carpenter (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 165, 169.
 
On the second point, the various
exceptions contained in Section 638.51(b) create possible affirmative defenses.
Plaintiff is not necessarily required to plead their absence. In any event,
Defense’s argument appears to be that Plaintiff gave consent simply by visiting
the website. Accepting this argument would allow the exception to swallow the
rule whole. If merely visiting a website constitutes consent to the use of a
pen register, then Section 638.51(a) would be a dead letter. It could never be
violated. That is not an acceptable consequence.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
has properly pled the ultimate facts necessary to this cause of action.
Tesolution of the issues raised requires discovery and the introduction of
evidence. Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant
now moves this court for an order striking the punitive damages allegations
from the Complaint. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED. The request
for punitive damages is STRICKEN.
 
Discussion
 
            Ordinarily,
the provisions of the Penal Code do not give rise to a private right of action.
See e.g. Agricultural Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th
385, 399-400. Where, as here, the Legislature provides for a private right of
action, it may or may not provide for a remedy. But it did so here. And where
the Legislature creates a specific cause of action and a remedy, courts are
usually confined to awarding the remedy provided for.
 
            As the
Court of Appeal explained in De Anza Santa Cruz Mobile Estates Homeowners
Assn. v. De Anza Santa Cruz Mobile Estates (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 890,
909-913, there are essentially two ways to approach a statutory remedy
provision, and both lead to the same place. The first is that if a statute
creates a new right that did not exist at common law, the new right should be
matched to the new remedy; unless the new remedy is obviously inadequate, the
court cannot presume that the Legislature meant to bring in old remedies to a
new and different situation. Id. at 912 (citing cases). The second is
that if a statute merely creates a new theory of liability for what was already
a common law tort, allowing the plaintiff to recover both statutory penalties
and common law remedies amounts to double recovery. Id. at 912-913.[1]
 
            The De
Anza panel further explained that the Legislature knows how to draft
statutes to include common law remedies if it wants to. It has frequently
drafted statutes which explicitly incorporate the punitive damages statutes, or
specify that the remedy is not exclusive, or otherwise indicate that the
plaintiff may recover more than the given statutory language describes. De
Anza, supra, 94 Cal.App.4th at 911.
 
            Here, Penal
Code § 637.2 makes no reference to the punitive damages statute. It
contains no statement that the remedies permitted are “cumulative” or
“non-exclusive.” Nothing in the language of the statute permits a suit for
anything other than the remedies expressly listed. 
 
            It is also
worth noting that, when Defendant raised this exclusivity argument in their
motion (at p. 8-9), Plaintiff did not directly respond. The only mention of
this issue in the opposition is an oblique assertion that Defendant “failed to
distinguish” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1256. (Opposition p. 11:18-22). That assertion misses the point. The
issue is not Plaintiff’s ability to plead a common law claim for invasion of
privacy. The issue is whether Plaintiff actually pled such a claim. He did not.
He made no attempt to. The complaint contains only one cause of action.
 
Conclusion
 
Because Plaintiff has chosen to proceed solely on a
statutory cause of action, Plaintiff is confined to the remedies provided by
that statute. Those remedies do not include punitive damages. Therefore, the
motion is GRANTED. The request for punitive damages is STRICKEN.


