  Case Number:  21STCV20252    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  14 Pope v. ThortonCase Background
 
            Plaintiff alleges that he bought
a house in part for its view, and in part based on the agent’s representation
that no construction was planned on the neighboring lot. Plaintiff claims that
the neighboring lot was owned by an enterprise in which the agent had an
interest. No sooner had escrow closed and Plaintiff moved in than a massive
construction project began on that neighboring lot. If completed, the project
will eliminate the view from Plaintiff’s property. Finally, Plaintiff alleges
that the house itself was defectively constructed.
 
            On February
14, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Breach of Express Warranty, (3) Breach of Implied Warranty, (4)
Violation of Civil Code §§ 895 et seq., (5) Fraud, (6) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (7) Promissory Fraud, (8) Public Nuisance Per Se, (9) Public
Nuisance, (10) Private Nuisance, (11) Rescission, (12) Negligence, and (13)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty against Defendants Roy Carson Thornton (“RC”), Oliver
Thornton (“Oliver”), Friends of Macapa Drive, LLC (“FMD”), Thornton Holdings,
LLC (“Holdings”), Compass California, Inc. (“Compass”), F&M Networking,
Inc. (“F&M”), Laura Pardini (“Pardini”), and DOES 1-50. 
 
The 1st, 2nd,
3rd, 7th, and 11th causes of action are
asserted against Defendants RC, Oliver, and FMD. The 4th cause of
action is asserted against Defendants RC, FMD, and F&M. The 5th
and 6th causes of action are asserted against Defendants RC, Oliver,
FMD, and Compass. The 8th, 9th, and 10th
causes of action are asserted against Defendants RC, Oliver, and Holdings. The
12th and 13th causes of action are asserted against
Defendants Pardini and Compass.
 
On March 15, 2023, Defendants RC,
FMD, and Holdings filed their joint Answer.
 
On March 20, 2023, Defendants
Oliver, Compass, and Pardini filed their joint Answer.
 
On August 24, 2023, Defendant
F&M filed its Answer.
 
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff
voluntarily dismissed Defendant Pardini, without prejudice.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for April 15, 2024.
 
(1)        Motion to
Continue Trial
 
Defendants RC, FMD, and Holdings
now moves this court for an order continuing trial to October of 2024.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, in part. Trial is continued to July 1, 2024, at 9:00 am.
Final Status Conference is continued to June 25, 2024, at 10:00 am. All counsel
and any unrepresented parties are to be present in person at the Final Status
Conference. All discovery and other deadlines are to track with the new date.
 
            The court
sets an OSC re: Dismissal of Defendant F&M Networking, Inc. for April 15,
2024, at 8:30 am.
 
Discussion
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1332(a) provides that trial dates are to be treated as
firm. However, Rule 3.1332(c) provides that, although continuances are
“disfavored,” requests should be considered on an individual basis. That
subsection also includes a non-exhaustive list of possible grounds for a
continuance.
 
            Defendants
rest their motion on Rule 1332(c)(2)-(3). They provide evidence that Defendant
RC is engaged in a series of surgical procedures which would render him unable
to participate in the trial for several weeks past the last surgery date, which
is April 14, 2024. (Declaration of Alan J. Carnegie ¶ 5). They also
provide evidence that trial counsel will be engaged in trial on a much older
case in front of Judge Theresa M. Traber, in this building, on April 15, 2024.
(Declaration of Alan J. Carnegie ¶ 4). Review of Judge Traber’s calendar
indicates that that case is likely to proceed.
 
            For both of
those reasons, Defendants are entitled to a continuance. The question is, for
how long? This case will be three years old on May 28, 2024, and while the
court appreciates counsel’s desire to avoid double-booking, the fact of the
matter is that if trials were set on dates where all counsel, parties, and
witnesses were certain to be available, they would never be set at all.
Therefore, this court will follow its practice of selecting a date on which
this case would be the oldest matter set.
 
            There is
one other housekeeping matter that requires attention. On October 10, 2023,
this court granted a motion for determination of good faith settlement as to
Defendant F&M. However, Plaintiff has failed to file a request for
dismissal of Defendant F&M. Until that dismissal is filed, they remain in
the case. Plaintiff needs to file that dismissal as soon as possible.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
Defendant RC has medical issues which will prevent his participation for some
weeks, and because Defense trial counsel will almost certainly be engaged on
the currently-set trial date, the motion is GRANTED, in part. Trial is
continued to July 1, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status Conference is continued to
June 25, 2024, at 10:00 am. All counsel and any unrepresented parties are to be
present in person at the Final Status Conference. All discovery and other
deadlines are to track with the new date.
 
            The court
sets an OSC re: Dismissal of Defendant F&M Networking, Inc. for April 15,
2024, at 8:30 am.
 
(2)        Motion to
Tax Costs
 
            Plaintiff
now moves this court for an order striking Defendant Pardini’s Memorandum of
Costs entirely, or in the alternative, apportioning the costs between Defendant
Pardini and her co-defendants.
 
Governing Standard
 
“There is no requirement that
copies of bills, invoices, statements, or any other such documents be attached
to the memorandum [of costs]. Only if the costs have been put in issue via a
motion to tax costs must supporting documentation be submitted.” Jones v.
Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1267. If an item in the costs bill
appears proper on its face, the moving party bears the burden of providing
evidence that that item was not reasonable and necessary. Bender v. County
of Los Angeles (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 968, 989; see also Nelson
v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131 (“[t]he court's first
determination, therefore, is whether the statute expressly allows the
particular item, and whether it appears proper on its face”).
 
            By
contrast, where an item both (a) appears improper on its face and (b)
moving party has objected, the opposing party bears the burden of producing
evidence to support that item. Ladas
v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774; Oak
Grove School Dist. of Santa Clara County v. City Title Ins. Co. (1963) 217
Cal.App.2d 678, 698.  “An item not
specifically allowable under subdivision (a) nor prohibited under subdivision
(b) may nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court.” Ladas,
supra, 19 Cal.App.4th at
774.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, in part. Item Nos. 1(b)-1(c) and 4(b)-4(c) are STRICKEN from
the Memorandum of Costs filed on October 6, 2023. Defendant Pardini is to
recover costs in the reduced amount of $1,544.08.
 
Discussion
 
            “A
prevailing party who is represented by the same counsel as a nonprevailing
party may only recover those costs the prevailing party incurred and were
reasonably necessary to the prevailing party's conduct of the litigation, not
the other jointly represented parties' conduct of the litigation.” Charton
v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730, 744. Where litigation has
terminated as to all parties, the trial court has discretion to award a
prevailing party full, partial, or no reimbursement for any costs shared with
non-prevailing parties. Id. However, where litigation against some
parties continues, the court must apportion the shared costs. Fennessey v.
Deleuw-Cather Corp. (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1192, 1196. This avoids two
potential scenarios: (a) double recovery, with multiple parties recovering for
the same item, or (b) the first party to prevail recovering fully while the
remaining parties recover little, raising the potential for subsequent
litigation between them. Id. 
 
Defendants Oliver, Compass, and
Pardini share representation. They have, therefore, to some extent shared
costs. Only one of them has prevailed. The case continues as to the other two.
Therefore, the court must apportion the shared costs between the three of them.
Defendant Pardini argues first that there is no need for apportionment (an
argument foreclosed by the authorities cited above), and second that the costs
she has claimed are already apportioned.
 
The Memorandum of Costs filed on
October 6, 2023, contains effectively seven entries: three filing fees and four
deposition charges. Each entry is discussed in turn. Additionally, the court
notes for the record that Plaintiff did not file a Reply to this motion.
 
Item 1(a): The Answer
 
            After
Plaintiff amended his complaint to include Defendant Pardini, she filed a joint
answer with her co-defendants. The court charged $459.50, a total which clearly
includes Defendant Pardini’s $435 first appearance fee (which the other
defendants had already paid) plus the ordinary document fees. Defendant Pardini
is clearly entitled to recover her $435 first appearance fee. And, had
Plaintiff not amended the complaint to add Pardini as a defendant, there would
have been no need to file another answer. Therefore, this entire expense is
attributable to Defendant Pardini and is recoverable by her. The motion is
DENIED as to this item.
 
Items 1(b)-(c): The Opposition and Supporting Declaration
 
            When
Plaintiff sought to amend the complaint to include Defendant Pardini,
Defendants Oliver and Compass filed opposition papers. While these papers
doubtless served Defendant Pardini’s interests, she was not party to the case
or to the motion. That expense belongs to Defendants Oliver and Compass, not
Defendant Pardini. The motion is GRANTED as to these items.
 
Item (4)(a): Deposition of Laura Pardini
 
            Defendant
Pardini seeks to recover the entire cost of her own deposition. Plaintiff
argues that she would have been deposed regardless of whether she was added as
a party. That may be true, but it is not precisely relevant. Defendant Pardini
was added as a party, at Plaintiff’s urging. She was deposed as a party; she
incurred the expense as a party. She is entitled to recover it. The motion is
DENIED as to this item.
 
Item 4(b): Deposition of Oliver Thornton
 
            The
analysis employed above cuts in the opposite direction here. Defendant Oliver
is also a party to this case. He was deposed as a party; he incurred the
expense as a party. Therefore, the cost of that deposition belongs to him. The
same rule that would permit Defendant Pardini to recover her whole deposition
expense prohibits her from recovering that of another defendant. The motion is
GRANTED as to this item.
 
Item 4(c): Deposition of Fran Hughes
 
            Fran Hughes
was deposed as the Person Most Knowledgeable for Defendant Compass. That makes
her the party witness for Defendant Compass. For the reasons given above, the
expense of her deposition belongs to Defendant Compass. The motion is GRANTED
as to this item.
 
Item 4(d): Deposition of Scott Purdy
 
             Defendant Pardini seeks to recover one-third
of the cost of the deposition of non-party witness Scott Purdy. Plaintiff
offers no specific challenge to this expense, and it is reasonable that three
parties operating a joint defense would split the expense of a non-party
witness deposition three ways. The motion is DENIED as to this item.