 Case Number:  22STCV20357    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  14 Akbarnejad v. SafaieCase Background
 
This is a legal malpractice case.
 
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed their Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) for (1) Professional Negligence,
(2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (3) Fraud against Defendants Majid Safaie (“Safaie”),
Brian T. Stuart (“Stuart”), Arya Law Center PC (“Arya”), and DOES 1-40. 
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendant
Safaie, joined by Defendant Arya, now demurs to the TAC on the grounds that it
fails to state facts sufficient to support any cause of action and is uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer to the first and second causes of action is OVERRULED, as it is
unsupported in the memorandum. California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(a).
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to
amend.
 
Third Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for fraud are: (1) a false representation, actual
or implied, or concealment of a matter of fact material to the transaction
which defendant had a duty to disclose or defendant’s promise made without the
intention to perform; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; (3) defendant’s
intent to deceive; (4) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and (5)
resulting damage to plaintiff. Mosier v. Southern
 Calif. Physicians Ins. Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1022, 1045. 
 
Fraud must be specifically pled,
and the particularity requirement necessitates the pleading of facts that “show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. The
purpose of the rules of fraud pleading is to inform the defendant and the court
of the specific grounds of the charge and enable them to evaluate it. See Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.
 
The TAC pleads fraud at paragraphs 27-36.
Paragraph 27 lists a series of representations which were made by Defendant
Safaie, orally and in the retainer agreement, when Plaintiff hired Defendants
as counsel. Paragraphs 28 and 30 allege that these representations were false.
Paragraphs 29-32 allege intent, reliance, and damages. 
 
Defendants Safaie and Arya argue
that Plaintiff has not explained what role Defendant Stuart played in these
events. This is true – Defendant Stuart is identified in Paragraph 2 and then
never mentioned again. However, Defendant Stuart is not included in the notice
of demurrer and has not formally joined the demurrer. Defendants Safaie and
Arya may not demur on his behalf.
 
There remains one problem with the
pleading. Defendants Safaie and Arya point out that Plaintiff has not pled what
authority Defendant Safaie had to speak for Defendant Arya. At no point does
Plaintiff explain who Defendant Safaie is in relationship to any other
defendant. The boilerplate agency allegations contained in Paragraph 7 of the
TAC do not suffice for the purposes of fraud pleading. Plaintiff needs to fill
in this remaining detail.
 
As a final note, Plaintiff should
consider Code of Civil Procedure § 430.41(e), which provides that a
complaint shall not be amended “more than three times” in response to a
demurrer, absent an offer of proof. The amendment after this demurrer will be
Plaintiff’s third. If there is a subsequent meritorious demurrer, the burden
will be on Plaintiff to explain how they can amend to cure the issues.
 
Conclusion
 
            The
demurrer to the first and second causes of action is OVERRULED, as it is
unsupported in the memorandum. California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(a).
 
            Plaintiff
has properly pled a claim for fraud against Defendant Safaie, but has not pled
a connection between Defendant Safaie and Defendant Arya which would render
Defendant Arya responsible for Defendant Safaie’s actions. Therefore, the
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to
amend.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant
now moves this court for an order striking the punitive damages and attorney’s
fees allegations from the SAC. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED, with 10
days leave to amend.
 
            The motion
is unopposed. This amounts to a concession by Plaintiff that the motion has
merit. See California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(a); see also Rule 3.1320(f); Herzberg
v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.