 Case Number:  23STCV21144    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-9-24 a/f 3-5-25 (9-18-24 minute order)
Case
23STCV21144
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Rio Hondo Community College District, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Pinner Construction Co., Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (set two)
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
November 15, 2016, Plaintiff Pioneer Construction Co., Inc. entered into a
contract with defendant Rio Hondo Community College District (Rio Hondo) for
the construction of Rio Hondo College “L” Tower Project. Rio Hondo also hired
defendant Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc. dba Del Terra Group as
construction manager for the project. The president of Del Terra is defendant
Luis Rojas. 
 
Plaintiff
alleges the Del Terra defendants intentionally sought to delay construction in
order to yield additional fees and/or cut compensation to Plaintiff. After a
purported 925 day delay, Del Terra “forced” Plaintiff and the subcontractors to
“accept far less than what was owed” under the contract or file for bankruptcy.
Plaintiff settled for $5,243.525, thereby foregoing an additional $2,691.484
sought. Plaintiff alleges the Del Terra parties are under criminal
investigation and were able to engineer the delays due to “control” of at least
three seats on the Rio Hondo Community College District Board of Trustees. Defendants
Marilyn Flores, Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz, Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva
Lomeli, and Vicky Santana, are identified as members of said board of trustees.
 
On
September 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach
of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications, Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations, International Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage, Recission of Contract, Violations of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, and Vicarious Liability for Interference with Contract and
Prospective Business Advantage. On September 25, 2023, Rio Hondo Community
College District filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for Breach of
Written Construction Contract, Breach of Written Settlement Agreement, Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Money Damages and Civil
Penalties for Violations of California False Claims Act, Making or Using False
Records of Statements to Obtain payment or Approval of False Claims; and
Conspiracy to Violate the False Claims Act.
 
On
October 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications,
Intentional Interference with Contract, Negligence, Recission of Contract,
Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Vicarious Liability
for Interference with Contract, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
Taxpayer Action for Waster, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent
Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra.
 
On
February 29, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Rio Hondo Community
College District, Marilyn Flores (“Flores”), Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz,
Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva Lomeli, and Vicky Santana to the first, second,
fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth causes of action for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Warranty of the Plans and Specifications,
Negligence, Recission of Contract, Vicarious Liability for Interference with
Contract, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer Action for
Waster, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting Aside
Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra with leave to amend. On February 29,
2024, the court sustained the demurrer of Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc.
dba Del Terra Group and Luis Rojas to fourth cause of action for negligence in
the first amended complaint, and overruled the demurrer to the third, sixth,
and tenth causes of action for Intentional Interference with Contract,
Violations of Business and Professions Code section 17200, and Taxpayer Action
for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD
and Del Terra causes of action. 
 
On
March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint for Intentional
Interference with Contract, Negligence, Violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, Taxpayer Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Taxpayer
Action for Waste, Taxpayer Action for Temporary and Permanent Injunctions
Setting Aside Contracts between RHCCD and Del Terra.
 
On
September 10, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer of Rio Hondo Community
College District, Marilyn Flores, Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz, Oscar
Valladares, Rosaelva Lomeli, and Vicky Santana. On September 11, 2024, the
court sustained the demurrer of Del Terra Real Estate Services, Inc. and Luis
Rojas.
 
RULING: Denied
Defendants Rio Hondo Community College District, Marilyn
Flores, Kristal Orozco, Anais Medina Diaz, Oscar Valladares, Rosaelva Lomeli,
and Vicky Santana move to compel further responses to request for production of
documents (set two), numbers 19-37, 39-42, and 45-51. Defendants contend
Plaintiff promised to produce all non-privileged documents, but no such
documents were produced, thereby necessitating the subject motion. Plaintiff
acknowledges the promise to produce but contends additional time was required
due to the volume of requests. Plaintiff represents that over 3,700 pages of
documents have already been produced with more to follow (on an unspecified
time frame). Plaintiff requests the court refrain from imposing sanctions.
Defendants in reply reiterates the invalid objections to production of
non-privileged information, and the continued delays in production. Defendant
maintains non-compliance with full production of all non-privileged documents,
and the demand for sanctions.
 
Notwithstanding the reserved motion to compel further
responses, Defendants correctly cite to the section regarding an unfulfilled
promise to produce. “If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling in accordance with that party's statement of
compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (a).)
 
Notwithstanding the Plaintiff conceding to the promise,
Plaintiff counters that the burdensome objection justified some delay. “The
documents shall be produced on the date specified in the demand pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030, unless an objection has
been made to that date. If the date for inspection has been extended pursuant
to Section 2031.270, the documents shall be produced on the date agreed to
pursuant to that section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280, subd. (a).) Plaintiff
concludes that the objection in and of itself provided additional, unspecified
times, since Defendants refused to cooperate in establishing a new deadline. 
 
"Whether a
particular response does resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by
a motion is a matter best determined by the trial court in the exercise of its
discretion, based on the circumstances of the case. In many cases involving
untimely responses, the propounding party will take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding
party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to
rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses without
objection if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided to one or
more interrogatories; it might deny the motion to compel responses as essentially
unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions; it might
treat the motion as one under section 2030.300 and either determine that
further answers are required, or order the propounding party to “meet and
confer” (§ 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a separate statement (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off calendar,
thereby requiring the propounding party to file a motion under section
2030.300.”
 
(Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408–409.) 
 
It remains unclear when the represented 3,700 pages
documents were produced. Defendants represent an e-mail link to documents
provided on August 22, 2204, and the motion was filed on August 30, 2024.
[Declarations of Gregory Sonnenberg and Joelle Leib.] Plaintiff also sent a
second e-mail with a 193 page “chart” identifying the responsive documents on
September 18, 2024. [Leib Decl., Ex. B-C.] 
 
It also remains unknown whether further documents remain
potentially outstanding by the time of the hearing. The court finds no valid
basis of extension simply based on the presentation of  objections without the support of an actual written
agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270.) Defendants in fact specifically
rejected the objections, due to prior refusal to produce documents all
together, only to see Plaintiff later agree to production anyway.
 
Barring a showing at the hearing of remaining outstanding
production, the court finds no basis to compel compliance with the promise for
further production under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320 assuming all
promised production occurred. The court therefore DENIES the motion without
prejudice. If responses remain outstanding, the court will order further
production. 
 
Assuming full compliance at the time of the hearing, the
court also concludes that the motion, at a minimum, prompted further production
after filing, and was therefore rightfully filed. The court adheres to a policy
that whenever a motion prompts a response demonstrating validity to the motion,
the court will impose sanctions in favor of the moving party. Given both the
filing of the action by Plaintiff and withholding of documents, the court finds
no justification for the delays. The non-existent agreement for further
extension based on unilateral objections lacks support. The court therefore
imposes the statutory minimum of $1,000 in sanctions joint and several against
Plaintiff and counsel of record. Payable within 30 days. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.050,
subd. (a), 2031.280, subd. (a).)
 
Discovery disputes leading to voluminous requests from the
court may lead to the appointment of a discovery referee. The court does not
conduct independent discovery conferences.
 
Motion to compel further responses to production of
documents (set one) on calendar for October 14, 2024. Case Management
conference set for November 15, 2024. 
 
Defendants to give notice to all parties.
 