 Case Number:  24STCV01608    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Qi Zhu’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint 
            Defendant
Qi Zhu demurs to the entire complaint by plaintiff Keren Zhang.  Defendant’s demurrer is defective because
there is no valid proof of service.  The
only proof of service defendant filed is an incomplete template.  All signature lines are blank.  The proof of service also never identifies the
name of the person who purportedly served the papers.  
Assuming defendant properly served the demurrer on
plaintiff, the court would overrule it on the merits. 
Plaintiff’s Complaint
            Plaintiff
Keren Zhang’s complaint alleges, in its entirety: “Keren Zhang bought a condo
four years ago, and I am the only who borrow the loan and he is not, we both
name on title, however, he never paid the mortgage payments, HOA fee and
property tax fee until now.  So I would
like to sue him to remove his name on title and I also require him to pay past
four years mortgage payment, HOA fee and property tax fee.”  
Uncertainty
            Defendant
demurs to the complaint based on uncertainty. 
“Demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.”  (A.J.
Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677,
695, internal quotes and alterations omitted.) 
The complaint must sufficiently apprise defendants of the claims against
them.  (Ibid.)  
            The complaint is not uncertain.  Defendant argues it is uncertain because it “contains
only one handwritten paragraph, with an unintelligible calligraphy and jumbled
sentence construction, which makes it barely understandable to the point that
Defendant cannot reasonably respond.” 
(Memo., p. 6.)  That the complaint
is written by hand or grammatically incorrect does not make it uncertain.  Though not written perfectly, the complaint is
legible enough and includes a plain statement of factual allegations.  The complaint states plaintiff wants “to
remove [defendant’s] name on title” and wants to “require him to pay” for
mortgage payments, HOA fees, and property taxes because Zhu co-owns the
property but has not paid for any of those expenses.  The nature of plaintiff’s claims against
defendant is clear.        
Defendant also argues the
complaint is uncertain because it does not identify or label any causes of
action.  Courts must overrule a demurrer
“[i]f the complaint states a cause of action under any theory, regardless of
the title under which the factual basis for relief is stated.”  (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty
Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38.) 
The complaint does not include any titles of causes of action, but as
discussed below, it alleges a factual basis for a cause of action on one legal
theory.  
Sufficiency of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for a cause of
action for contribution by a cotenant of real property.  “[A] cotenant who pays
taxes, trust deed payments or other charges against the property or expends
money for the preservation of the property … is entitled to contribution from
the cotenant.”  (Milian v. De Leon
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 1185, 1194.)  “As
an incident to cotenancy relationship, either cotenant has a right to demand of
the other an accounting as to rents and profits of the cotenancy, which, of
course, involves the right of one cotenant to have refunded to him by the other
his proportion of any expenditures made for the benefit of the common
property.”  (Willmon v. Koyer
(1914) 168 Cal. 369, 372.)
            The complaint alleges both Zhang and
Zhu are “on title” to real property, “a condo.” 
It alleges Zhu “never paid the mortgage payments, HOA fee and property
tax fee.”  When liberally construed, the
complaint sufficiently alleges Zhang and Zhu are co-tenants who each own a 50%
interest in real property, Zhang has paid 100% of the common expenses, and
therefore she is entitled to contribution of 50% of those expenses from Zhu.
Defendant’s
demurrer argues, “Plaintiff has not specified which parcel of real estate she
is claiming quiet title to, its precise location, the date when it was
acquired, the terms of the loan she is referring to, the amount and dates of
the mortgage payments for which she is seeking reimbursement.”  (Memo, p. 8.) 
Those details are not necessary to allege a claim for contribution by a
cotenant.  “The plaintiff is required to plead only
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts.” 
(C. W. Johnson & Sons, Inc. v. Carpenter (2020) 53
Cal.App.5th 165, 169.)  
            The
complaint does not, however, allege sufficient facts to “remove [defendant’s]
name on title.”  A cotenant not paying
his share of the mortgage, HOA fees, and property tax is not a basis for
removing him from the title to the property. 
Moreover, removing someone from legal title to real property requires an
action to quiet title under Code of Civil Procedure section 760.010 et
seq.  A complaint for quiet title must be
verified under oath and must include other information specified in Code of
Civil Procedure section 761.020.  Plaintiff’s
complaint is not verified and does not include all the required information.  
Disposition
            Defendant
Qi Zhu’s demurrer is overruled.  Defendant
shall answer plaintiff’s complaint within 20 days.