 Case Number:  23PSCV00718    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION FOR
AN ORDER GRANTING TRIAL PREFERENCE PURSUANT TO CALIFORNIA CODE OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE SECTION 36(d)-(f) is DENIED without prejudice, notably
as Plaintiffs provide insufficient evidence. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from a motor vehicle accident.[1]
 
On March 10,
2023, Plaintiffs CHRISTOPHER LOUIS SAMARIN, an individual; INGE YVONNE SAMARIN,
an individual; and MONIQUE NATASHA SAMARIN file suit against Defendant GEORGE
OLIVER CARTER for General Negligence.
 
On April 25,
2023, Defendant filed his answer, and that same day filed a demand for jury
trial. 
 
On September
1, 2023, the court issued in, relevant part, the following minute order:
“Order to Show Cause Re: Why the Court Should not Strike Defendant's Answer is
scheduled for 02/06/2024 at 09:00 AM in Department O at Pomona Courthouse
South. A Declaration in response to the Order to Show Cause is to be filed at
least five (5) Court Days prior the next hearing date.”[2]
[Thus, OSC statement due Tuesday, 1/2/24.] 
 
On December
12, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
 
 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Plaintiff
moves for trial preference based on CCP section 36 subdivision (d). (Motion p.
1.)
 
For
litigants who are not over the age of 70, the court retains discretion pursuant
to CCP section 36(d).[3] The statute
provides that “[i]n its discretion, the court may also
grant a motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing
medical documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers
from an illness or condition raising substantial medical doubt of
survival of that party beyond six months, and that satisfies the
court that the interests of justice will be served by granting the
preference.”  (CCP § 36(d)) (emphasis added). 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
moves for trial preference because Mr. Samarin is 67 years old and has metastatic
cancer. 
 
Here, however, Plaintiffs have provided insufficient
evidence, let alone clear and convincing evidence, that Mr. Samarin may not
live beyond 6 months. The
only evidence provided is by Mr. Samarin’s doctor, who, in two sentences,
states the following: “Mr. Samarin is under my care for metastatic cancer. His
cancer is progressing despite chemotherapy.” (Motion, Ex. 1, p. 10 of 13 of
PDF.) 
 
There is no
discussion as to where the cancer has spread, when he was
diagnosed, his prognosis, side effects of his chemotherapy, or other
necessary information to ascertain whether Mr. Samarin can survive beyond six
months. In fact, Plaintiffs’ citation to Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529 as an instructive case but supports the court’s ruling that
more is required.[4]
While the court understands that the end does
not come with certainty, at the very least, for purposes of subdivision (d), the
threshold of some specifics is required, none of which is given here. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, exercising its discretion, the motion is denied without
prejudice. The Court will entertain a continuance if Plaintiff wishes to provide supplemental information regarding Mr. Samarin's medical condition.


