 Case Number:  22STCV17079    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  74 Almost
Nothing, Inc. v. Omid Reyhanian, et al.
Defendants’ Demurrer to Second
Amended Complaint
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from a dispute
over a lease agreement.
            On May 24, 2022, Plaintiff Almost
Nothing, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a complaint.
            On November 2, 2022, Plaintiff filed
a first amended complaint.
            On March 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
second amended complaint (SAC) against Defendants Omid Reyhanian, Peyman
Balakhane, and Pejamn Balakhaneh (Defendants), in addition to Pacific Eurotex
Corp. (Co-Lessor).
            The SAC alleges the following causes
of action: breach of lease, breach of joint venture agreement, breach of
warranty of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, conspiracy
to defraud, negligence, conversion, rescission of contract, declaratory relief,
and violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200.
            On November 21, 2023, Defendants
filed this demurrer.
DISCUSSION 
First Cause of Action – Breach of
Lease
            The elements for this cause of
action are as follows: (1) a contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for non-performance, (3) defendant’s breach, (4) damages. (Acoustics,
Inc. v. Trepte Constr. Co. (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 887, 913.) 
            Defendants
contend the court should sustain their demurrer for this cause of action
because Plaintiff has not alleged that Defendants breached the lease. Rather,
Defendants have paid their rent in full. But the parties’ course-of-conduct can
aid in contractual interpretation, so long as the conduct does not contradict
unambiguous terms. (Wind v. Dancer Production Group v. Walt Disney Pictures (2017)
10 Cal.App.5th 56, 72.) For years, Defendants allegedly paid the rent directly
to Plaintiff, who then divided the proceeds between Plaintiff and Co-Lessor.
(SAC, ¶¶ 10, 11.) Defendants acquiesced to this arrangement. (SAC, ¶ 10.) However,
Defendants allegedly breached the lease by paying the rent to Co-Lessor instead
of Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶ 13.) Moreover, the alleged course of conduct does not
contradict the express terms of the lease: Defendant acknowledges the lease is
silent about the delivery of rent. (Demurrer, p. 9.) 
            Thus,
the court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action.
Third Cause of Action – Breach of
the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            The covenant of good faith and fair
dealing is implied by law in every contract. (Durrell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1369.) In support of their demurrer, Defendants argue they
have paid the rent in full and have not breached an express term of the lease. 
            However,
breach of a specific provision of the contract is not necessary for a claim for
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (Carma Developers
(Cal.), Inc. v. Marathon Development California, Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 342,
373.) The covenant serves to prevent a contracting party from engaging in
conduct that frustrates the other party’s rights to the benefits of the
contract. (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)
            Here,
Plaintiff is a co-lessor under the lease. (SAC, ¶ 8.) As such, Plaintiff is
entitled to rent payments. (SAC, ¶ 8; Ex. 1, ¶ 4.) But Defendants allegedly
paid the rent to Co-Lessor in violation of the parties’ course of conduct.
(SAC, ¶ 13.) As a result, Plaintiff has not received all rent owed under the
lease. (SAC, ¶ 15.) These allegations are sufficient.
            Thus,
the court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action.
Fifth Cause of Action – Conspiracy
to Defraud
            The elements are as follows: “the
formation and operation of the conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance
of the conspiracy, and (3) damages. (Kidron v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1581.) Moreover, this cause of action requires the
commission of an underlying tort by a coconspirator. (Kenne v. Stennis (2014)
230 Cal.App.4th 953, 968-969.) Defendants argue in part that Plaintiff has not
pleaded sufficient facts to show that they or Co-Lessor committed the
underlying tort of fraud. In its opposition, Plaintiff does not sufficiently
articulate how Defendants or Co-Lessor committed fraud. 
            Thus,
the court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action with leave to
amend.
Sixth Cause of Action – Negligence
            Defendants contend that this cause
of action fails because a party ordinarily cannot recover in tort for a breach
of contract. (Stop Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Medical
Group (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041.) 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff notes a tortious breach of contract may be found when (1)
the breach is accompanied by a traditional common law tort, (2) the means used
to breach the contract are tortious, or (3) one party intentionally breaches
the contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause severe harm in
the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial consequential
damages. (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 553-554.) However,
Plaintiff does not articulate how Defendants’ alleged breach was tortious under
these criteria. Nor does Plaintiff direct the court to supporting allegations. 
            The
court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action with leave to
amend.
Seventh Cause of Action – Conversion
            The applicable elements are as
follows: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property,
(2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property
rights, and (3) damages. (Los Angeles Federal Credit Union v. Madatyan (2012)
209 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1387.) Here, the property at issue is rent money
Plaintiff has not received. (SAC, ¶ 67.) The conversion claim
fails because it misapplies the concept. Knowing how much money one is owed –
even if to the very penny – does not make that debt “identifiable” personal
property subject to conversion because money is fungible. A debt can be paid,
among other ways, by cash, check, money order, or even an online banking app,
all of which belie a debt being identifiable personal property. Defendants do
not owe Plaintiff “identifiable” personal property; Defendants instead owes Plaintiff
a debt, which is intangible property to which conversion does not apply. The
court therefore
sustains Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action with leave to amend.
Eighth Cause of Action – Rescission
            As Defendants note, rescission is
not a cause of action. (Nakash v. Superior Court (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d
59, 70.) Thus, the court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action
without leave to amend. 
Ninth Cause of Action – Declaratory
Relief
            In
an action for declaratory relief, the complaint is sufficient if it sets forth
facts showing the existence of an actual controversy relating to the legal
rights and duties of the parties and requests that the rights and duties be
adjudged. (Childhelp, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th
224, 235.) Defendants argue this cause of action fails because it adds nothing
to the complaint by way of fact, theory, or recovery. The court disagrees.
Moreover, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts: the parties dispute their rights
and duties under the lease. (SAC, ¶ 77.) Plaintiff has also requested that the
court determine those rights and duties. (SAC, ¶ 77.)
            Thus,
the court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action.
Tenth Cause of Action – Unfair
Business Practices
            Business
and Professions Code section 17200 defines unfair competition as any unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business practice. To determine whether a business
practice is unfair, courts must examine its impact on the alleged victim,
balanced against reasons, justifications, and motives of the alleged wrongdoer.
(Motors, Inc. v. Times Mirror Co. (1980) 102 Cal.App.3d 735, 740.)
Defendants argue Plaintiff has not alleged that they engaged in any unfair
business practices. But Plaintiff alleges Defendants are joint venturers in a
clothing business. (SAC, ¶ 82.) Defendants entered a commercial lease with
Plaintiff and Co-Lessor. (SAC, ¶ 8.) Moreover, Defendants withheld rent from
Plaintiff, who was entitled to the payment. (SAC, ¶¶ 13-15, 87.) The utility of
Defendants’ conduct is a factual inquiry better suited for a motion for summary
judgment. (Motors, Inc. v. Times Mirror Co., supra, 102 Cal.App.3d at p.
740.)
            Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff fails to state a claim for recoverable damages. But
the unfair competition law permits a party to initiate an action for
restitutionary or injunctive relief. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000)
78 Cal.App.4th 952, 964.) Here, Plaintiff seeks an injunction that would
prohibit Defendants from withholding rent payments due to Plaintiff. (SAC, ¶
87.) Additionally, Plaintiff seeks restitution from Defendants. (SAC, ¶ 89.)
            Thus,
the court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action.
CONCLUSION 
The
court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action without leave
to amend. The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth, sixth, and
seventh causes of action with leave to amend. The court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to the first, third, ninth, and tenth causes of action.
Defendants
shall give notice.