  Case Number:  20STCV09612    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  74 Glenn Feldman, et al. v. Fraser Ross, et al.
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition Request for Monetary
Sanctions
 
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from a
contractual dispute.
            On March 9, 2020, Plaintiff Glenn
Feldman (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Kitross Apparel Los Angeles, LLC
and Fraser Ross (Defendants). 
            In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges
the following causes of action: intentional misrepresentation, negligent
misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, constructive trust, accounting, and fraudulent
conversion.
            On August 23, 2023, Defendants
served Plaintiff with a notice of deposition. The deposition was set for
September 14, 2023. 
            On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff
served objections to the notice.
            The deposition did not go forward.
            On October 20, 2023, Defendants
filed this motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and request for sanctions.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “The service of a
deposition notice . . . is effective to require any deponent who is a party to
the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to
attend and to testify, as well as produce any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action .
. . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, the party giving notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants seek to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and production of
documents responsive to Request for Production Nos. 1-89. In opposition,
Plaintiff first argues the court should deny this motion because Plaintiff
raised a valid and timely objection to the notice of deposition.[1]
That is, the notice did not state the address where the deposition would take
place. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.220, subd. (a)(1), 2025.250, subd. (a).) However,
any party may take a deposition by telephone, videoconference, or other remote
electronic means. (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1010, subd. (a).) Because
the notice indicated that the deposition would be held via video conference, Defendants
did not need to provide an address. (Najemy Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s
objection is unavailing as a result. 
            In addition, Plaintiff
objects that Defendants failed to sufficiently meet and confer. Defendants have
provided evidence to the contrary, though. (Najemy Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5; Ex. C; Ex.
D.) Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ meet and confer efforts were not in good
faith because Defendants did not appear at their own depositions and rejected
Plaintiff’s offers to set firm dates for all party depositions. Such conduct
does not excuse Plaintiff from appearing for his noticed deposition, though. 
            Last, Plaintiff notes
that the parties have agreed to conduct Plaintiff’s deposition on June 5, 2024.
(Opposition, p. 2; Reply, p. 3.) But the requests for production remains.
Plaintiff’s initial boilerplate objections to the requests are improper.
(Korea Data Systems v. Superior Court (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1516.)
Moreover, Plaintiff does not expand on his objections in his opposition or a
separate statement. Plaintiff also objects that he has
already produced documents responsive to nearly every request. But Plaintiff
does not specify which requests he has satisfied. 
            Given Plaintiff’s
failure to justify his objections to the requests for production of documents,
the court finds that sanctions are warranted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g).) Defendants’ counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable, but the court
finds the hours for which he seeks compensation excessive. (Najemy Decl., ¶
12.) Accordingly, the court will reduce the award to    $4,260 ($350 x (4 hours (motion) + 3 hours
(separate statement) + 3 hours (review of opposition and reply) + 2 hours
(preparation for hearing and hearing)) + $60 filing fee). 
CONCLUSION
            The court orders Plaintiff to appear by video conference for his
deposition on the agreed date of June 5, 2024. The court grants Defendants’
motion to compel Plaintiff’s production of documents responsive to Request Nos.
1-89. The court grants Defendants’ request for sanctions. Plaintiff shall pay
Defendants’ counsel $4,260 in attorney fees and costs within 30 days of this
order. 
            Defendants shall give
notice.


