  Case Number:  23STCV27119    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ONETASTE, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
NETFLIX, INC., and DOES 1 to 100,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV27119
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT NETFLIX, INC.’S SPECIAL MOTION
  TO STRIKE COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 425.16
 
Date: April 16, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Netflix, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Netflix”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
OneTaste, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “OneTaste”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff OneTaste
filed the instant Complaint against Defendant Netflix and DOES 1 to 100,
inclusive, alleging a single cause of action for Defamation Per Se. On
March 4, 2024, Defendant filed this instant special motion to strike (Anti-SLAPP)
(the “Motion”). On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion.
On April 9, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to the opposition. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
In support of its motion, Defendant has filed the
declarations of Rachel R. Goldberg (the “Goldberg Declaration”), Zana Lawrence
(the “Laurence Declaration”), and Sarah Gibson (the “Gibson Declaration”), with
accompanying exhibits. Plaintiff objects to portions of these declarations and
make general objections. The Court rules as follows:
 
OVERRULED: Objections 1-6 as to the Lawrence Declaration; Objection to
the entirety of the Gibson Declaration; Objections 1-2 as to Goldberg Declaration;
Objections 1-3 of the general objections
SUSTAINED: None
            
In support of its opposition, Plaintiff filed the
declaration of Kevin Williams (the “Williams Declaration”), with accompanying
exhibits. Defendant objects to portions of the Williams Declaration and certain
exhibits. The Court rules as follows:
 
OVERRULED: Objections 4, 5, 11, 46, 47
SUSTAINED: Objections 1-3, 6-10, 12-18, 19-45
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Defendant request that the Court take judicial notice of Exhibits A, C-D,
DD-EE, and E-Z attached to the Goldberg Declaration. 
 
            Plaintiff requests that
the Court take judicial notice of (1) Gaprindashvili v. Netflix, Inc.
(C.D. Cal. Jan. 27, 2022) Case No. 2:21-cv-07408-VAPSKx, 2022 WL 363537; (2)
Fairstein v. Netflix, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 19, 2023) 20-cv-8042 (PKC), 2023 WL 6125631; and (3)
Hill v. DocShop Prods., Inc., LASC 19STCV27884, 2022 WL 1078173.
 
            The requests for
judicial notice are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452, subdivision
(d), (g), (h) and 45, but not to the truth of the matters stated therein. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Under Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 425.16, subdivision (b), “[a] cause of action against a person arising
from any act of that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or
free speech under the United States Constitution or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike
unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a
probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” 
 
            Such a motion involves a two-step
analysis, in which the court must first determine whether a movant “has made a
threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from
protected activity ...” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 712 (quoting
Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67).)
If the court so finds, it must then examine whether the respondent has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Taus, supra, 40
Cal.4th at p. 712.) In determining whether the respondent has carried this
burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup v. Law Offices of
Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)
 
Timeliness
            Under Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 425.16, subdivision (f), “The
special motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of the complaint or,
in the court's discretion, at any later time upon terms it deems proper.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (f).)
 
            The Court finds that
Defendant’s Motion is timely. Although the Complaint was filed on November 3,
2023, Defendant was not served with the summons and complaint until January 2,
2024. (POS filed on 1/8/24.). Defendant filed this instant Anti-SLAPP motion on
March 4, 2024, which is  forty-two (42)
days after service of the summons and complaint excluding weekends and public
holidays. Thus, Defendant’s Anti-SLAPP Motion is timely and will be considered
on the merits. 
 
Analysis
            Defendant moves to
specially strike Plaintiff’s Complaint on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff’s
cause of action arises from Defendant’s conduct in furtherance of the exercise
of free speech about a matter of public interest, thus its falls within the
scope of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16; and (2) Plaintiff
cannot meet its burden of establishing the probability of prevailing on the
defamation claims against Defendant for the documentary entitled Orgasm Inc.: The Story of OneTaste (the “Documentary” or the “Film”) as a matter of law and cannot show
that Defendant acted with actual malice in distributing it. 
 
            Protected Activity
An act in furtherance of a person's right to
petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or California
Constitution includes “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before
a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
 
Defendant contends that distributing a documentary film is unquestionably conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of free speech. (Ojjeh
v. Brown (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1027, 1036.)  This Court agrees.  
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendant Netflix “released
the film Orgasm Inc: The Story of OneTaste (the “Film”)” on November 5, 2022. (Compl.
¶ 1.) The Complaint further alleges that this action arises from “the final 15
minutes or so of the Film before the end credits, which contain the false
statements of fact that OneTaste condones violence against women and that a
woman was raped and beaten in connection with her employment at OneTaste and
participation in its classes and events.” (Compl. ¶¶ 2, 29-54.) The Complaint
also alleges that “Netflix’s unprivileged publication of false statements of
fact charging OneTaste ‘with crime’ and ‘imputing something with reference to’
OneTaste’s ‘business that has a natural tendency to lessen its profits’ or ‘which,
by natural consequences, causes actual damage” is defamatory on its face,
otherwise known as ‘defamation per se’ under California Civil Code Section 46.”  (Compl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Additionally, the Complaint alleges that “OneTaste
has suffered and continues to suffer actual damages on an ongoing basis in that
the Film is the most widely disseminated information publicly available about
OneTaste, and OneTaste believes the Film’s defamatory statements have deterred
and will continue to deter people from participating in OneTaste’s classes and
events and has impacted OneTaste’s ability to bring its teachings to as many
customers as possible at affordable prices. 
Meanwhile, OneTaste does not have the public platform or resources
necessary to combat the defamatory statements, while Netflix, compared to
OneTaste, has substantial resources to publish and promote the defamatory
statements on its own platform.” (Compl. ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
“The mere fact that a plaintiff has filed an action
after a defendant has engaged in some protected activity does not mean that the
plaintiff's action arose from that activity. The anti-SLAPP statute cannot be
read to mean that any claim asserted in an action which arguably was filed in
retaliation for the exercise of speech or petition rights falls under section
425.16, whether or not the claim is based on conduct in exercise of those
rights.” Gallimore v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Ins. Co. (2002),
102 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1398 (internal citations and quotations omitted).)
 
This is not the case here. Plaintiff’s claim in the
Complaint arises directly from Defendant’s distribution of the Documentary and
the statements contained therein. As such, these allegations are not merely
incidental to unprotected conduct, if any, alleged in the Complaint. (Peregrine Funding, Inc. v. Sheppard Mullin Richter
& Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658, 672 (“where a cause of
action alleges both protected and unprotected activity, the cause of action
will be subject to section 425.16 unless the protected conduct is ‘merely
incidental’ to the unprotected conduct.”); Scott
v. Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 404, 414 (“if the allegations of protected activity are only
incidental to a cause of action based essentially on nonprotected activity, the
mere mention of the protected activity does not subject the cause of action to
an anti-SLAPP motion.”)
The Court finds that Defendant has made a prima
facie showing that the sole claim in the Complaint arises from protected speech
or activity and that the Anti-SLAPP statute does apply. The Court now turns to
whether Plaintiff has a reasonable probability of prevailing on the claim in
the Complaint. 
 
Probability of Prevailing on the Claim 
On
the second component of the analysis, courts employ a “summary-judgment-like”
procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and
evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether the defendant has
defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) In other words, the court does not assess credibility,
and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the evidence
standard. The court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff,
who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid
being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup v,
Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.) 
 
Defendant
argues that none of the allegedly false statements are actionable because they
are opinions, protected by privilege, and not “of and concerning” Plaintiff.
Defendant further argues that OneTaste is a public figure and that the
Complaint fails to plead and Defendant cannot show that Defendant acted with
actual malice in publishing any statement at issue. 
 
Specifically,
Defendant contends that the first statement: “It was only a way to condone
violence” comes from the journal of Ayries Blanck (“Ayries”)[1], read
aloud by her sister Autumyn, which in context states: “I was told that
sometimes our soulmates must do violent things to help us grow.  It was only a way to condone violence.”  This statement is plainly an expression of
Ayries’ opinion about Plaintiff’s teachings. (Goldberg Decl. ¶, Ex. B at 1.) Defendant
also contends this statement was written after leaving Plaintiff and is a
journal entry outlining Ayries’ own version of what took place. 
 
Defendant
also asserts that the second statement: “that thing about them finding some
strangers to rape her” was spoken by Audrey Wright during a telephone call with
an FBI agent investigating potential criminal activity involving Plaintiff and was
thus absolutely privileged under Civil Code Section 47, subdivision (d), which provides
that: “…a fair and true report in, or a communication to, a public journal, of
(A) a judicial, (B) legislative, or (C) other public official proceeding, or
(D) of anything said in the course thereof, or (E) of a verified charge or
complaint made by any person to a public official, upon which complaint a
warrant has been issued” is a privileged publication. 
 
With
regard to the third and fourth statements, i.e., “the sexual assaults
and the beatings,” Defendant argues that they are taken from an exchange
between the interviewer and Autumyn after she reads one of Ayries’ journal
entries describing her physical and emotional distress and the interviewer asks
whether “this is your sister’s body reacting to the sexual assault and the
beatings,” to which Autumyn replied affirmatively. 
 
Thus,
Defendant asserts that these phrases read in context cannot form the basis of a
viable defamation claim because whether Ayries’ sexual encounters with unnamed
parties constituted sexual assault or whether her then-boyfriend beat her are
not assertions of and concerning Plaintiff. Additionally, Defendant asserts that
the interviewer and Autumyn are plainly speculating about the link between
Ayries’ physical symptoms and her experiences as described in the same scene,
which is not provably false. 
Similarly,
Defendant argues that the fifth statement: “If you or someone you know has
experienced sexual violence” is an on-screen text, appearing just before the
credits that reads in full “If you or someone you know has experienced
sexual violence, information and resources are available at
www.wannatalkaboutit.com.” (Compl. ¶ 53; Ex. A at 01:26:05.) Defendant
argues this statement is also not actionable because it addresses viewers who
may have experienced sexual violence or know someone who has, and it is not
defamatory to direct viewers to a website for information and resources about
sexual assault. 
 
In
general, Defendant asserts that: 1) it did not publish any of the statements
with actual malice, i.e., actual knowledge that they were false or with
reckless disregard of whether it was false or not; and 2) Plaintiff is at least
a limited public figure because: (1) it has been the willing subject of
extensive media coverage for promoting “Orgasmic Meditation” as a form of
wellness; (2) it has appeared in Gwyneth Paltrow’s influential Goop podcast;
(3) its founder, former CEO  and leader Nicole
Daedone (“Daedone”) published a book about its teachings, gave a TEDx Talk seen
by millions of people online and held live events attended by thousands of
people; (3) it was the subject of an active FBI investigation.  Defendant therefore asserts that because
Plaintiff is a public figure, it is required to prove that Defendant acted with
actual malice in order to prevail on its claim against Defendant. (Goldberg
Decl. ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. E-Z; Compl. ¶ 1.) 
 
Lastly,
Defendant argues that: 1) its reliance on highly reputable new sources
reporting in line with the account of Ayries’ experiences with Plaintiff also
reflects a lack of actual malice; 2) Plaintiff’s pre-release letters to
Defendant did not create the requisite knowledge of falsity; and 3) Plaintiff
was contacted for comment and its denials were included in the Documentary. 
 
Civil
Code Section 46 states in pertinent part, “Slander is a false and unprivileged
publication, orally uttered, and also communications by radio or any mechanical
or other means which: 1. Charges any person with crime, or with having been
indicted, convicted, or punished for crime; 2. Imputes in him the present
existence of an infectious, contagious, or loathsome disease;
3. Tends directly
to injure him in respect to his office, profession, trade or business, either
by imputing to him general disqualification in those respects which the office
or other occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with reference
to his office, profession, trade, or business that has a natural tendency to
lessen its profits; 4. Imputes to him impotence or a want of chastity; or 5.
Which, by natural consequence, causes actual damage.”
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
its philosophy and teachings are not at issue in this case. Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant had all the unedited video lectures from which it created
evidence it now relies on. Plaintiff further argues that the unedited videos
confirm that Daedone’s teachings do not condone violence or rape. As such,
Plaintiff contend that Defendant cannot fabricate a statement or witness to
support the argument it could have believed the statements were true. Moreover,
Plaintiff contends that no one who worked on the Documentary provides testimony
about what happened or why. In addition, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant knew
the statements were false because there are three versions of Ayries’ story
explaining why she left Plaintiff and only Louisa West’s version is spoken by
Ayries and to a close friend, closest in time to the events, and closest to the
reasons people leave jobs corroborated by prior December 2014 statements. (Exs.
16-17.)  Likewise, Plaintiff asserts that
the Documentary only exists as a vehicle to create the impression it was
asserting objective facts. Finally, Plaintiff argues that Defendant was not
reporting a suspected criminal activity when it filmed the scene with Audrey
making a report to the FBI and Audrey is not being sued for making a false
report to the FBI. 
            In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has conceded that its suit is subject to the Anti-SLAPP statute and that
Plaintiff cannot provide any factual allegations, let alone evidence, that any
of the statements are false, i.e., that Ayries did not have these experiences. Defendant
argues that it has provided more than sufficient evidence to show that the
statements are true, including Ayries’ journals and reputable outlets’
published reporting. 
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff has admitted that it is a public figure and that the
Documentary concerns matters of public interest. (Opp. at 8, 11.) Moreover,
Defendant contends Plaintiff fails to show that each statement is actionable
and false but only dismissively asserts that all the statements were presented
as fact. Defendant argues that Plaintiff cites no legal authority to support
that contention and identifies no specific context refuting Defendant’s
position that any of the statements are opinion. Similarly, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff erroneously asserts that Defendant conceded each statement is
false because it did not devote the Motion to proving each is true, thus
misrepresenting the legal standard. 
 
            Viewing the evidence in the light
most favorable to Plaintiff, the Court presumes that Plaintiff’s founder and
leader Daedone does not condone violence of any kind. The Court further
presumes Ayries provided prior statements that suggest she left Plaintiff for a
reason other than what is shown in the Documentary. The Court also presumes
that certain interviewers featured in the Documentary were paid to be featured.

 
The
Court therefore finds that Plaintiff proffers no evidence to support its sole
cause of action for defamation per se. The evidence submitted by
Plaintiff consists of hearsay statements offered for the truth of the matter
asserted, irrelevant statements that do not relate to the issue at hand, and other
lawsuits that are not pertinent to the case at hand. Furthermore, the evidence
presented by Plaintiff does not indicate that the statements from Ayries’ journal
were in fact false. In fact, Plaintiff proffers no testimony from Ayries, other
employees, Autumyn, or anyone else contesting that the statements in Ayries’
purported journal were not written by her or recanting the content of the
journal. Further, Plaintiff presents no evidence that Defendant knew the
statements were false. Even if the statements were provably false, Plaintiff
presents insufficient evidence to support the contention that Defendant acted
with actual malice. Thus, Plaintiff has not established its sole claim for defamation
per se has minimal merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. 
 
 Therefore, the Defendant Netflix’s special
motion to strike is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 16th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






