 Case Number:  SC125609    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  I The court will discuss the status with the parties.  The court is in receipt of plaintiffs’
objection to the Referee’s Report and the response (and sanctions request)
thereto.  The court must agree with the
referee here.
 
Under the Code of Civil Procedure, there is discovery by
right and discovery that must be requested by the court and ordered.  Discovery by right can take place up to 30
days before the initial trial date. 
Motions related to that discovery can be made by right so long as they
are to be heard no later than 15 days before the initial trial date.  When the trial date moves, the discovery cut
off dates do not move unless the court so orders.
 
This case has been on the verge of trial before and there
have been many trial dates.  On March 2,
2023, the court granted a motion to continue the trial to July 22, 2024.  The court stated that discovery already on
the books could go forward, meaning that if it had already been properly
served, it was not barred by the initial trial date.  Other discovery, however, was subject to the
cut-off based on the old trial date.  One
piece of outstanding discovery was a deposition that plaintiffs wanted to take
of O’Gara in part to ascertain the specific bases for O’Gara’s fraud cause of
action alleged in the cross complaint. 
However, there were numerous objections at the deposition and a hearing
was held before the discovery referee on that issue.  On September 11, 2023, the discovery referee
apparently proposed that instead or in aid of getting that information by way
of deposition, plaintiffs ask a few specific, targeted special interrogatories.  According to the transcript, both parties
agreed.  The court notes that O’Gara’s
counsel states that O’Gara never agreed but rather was ordered to so respond by
the referee.  That is not an accurate
recitation of the transcript, nor does the court believe that the referee
believed he had that authority.  Had
O’Gara wanted to object, it could have and should have done so.  Instead, counsel affirmatively agreed to the
procedure.  Accordingly, plaintiffs
served additional interrogatories and O’Gara responded.  Plaintiffs were not satisfied with the
responses and brought a motion to compel further responses.  Although O’Gara objected, the referee agreed
with plaintiffs and ordered further responses and the court approved the
recommendation.  Further responses were
submitted and plaintiffs again did not believe the responses were
adequate.  That caused plaintiffs to
bring another motion to compel further and seek non-monetary sanctions,
including a terminating sanction.  There
was no meet and confer associated with reopening any discovery deadlines.  That motion was filed on July 5, 2024, and
the referee was apparently ready to hear it on an expedited basis.  Plaintiffs claim that they tried to file on
July 2, 2024, but were unable to do so through the court’s reservation system.  However, the referee had questions concerning
his jurisdiction to decide that issue, which the court resolved by expressly
giving him jurisdiction.  The referee
heard argument but ultimately decided he had to deny the motion on procedural
grounds, and he issued a report and recommendation to that effect.  The referee concluded that the time to bring a
discovery motion had come and gone, and thus the motion—being out of time—could
not be heard.  The referee also believed
that plaintiffs had not conducted a sufficient meet and confer on that
topic.  The referee therefore recommends
that the motion be denied on procedural grounds without reaching the
merits.  Plaintiffs object to the
recommendation.  Defendants support the
recommendation but seek sanctions.
 
The court agrees with much of plaintiffs’ position, but not
enough.  When the court continued the
trial date to July 22, 2024, the time to complete the deposition was also
extended.  That deposition went forward
in a timely manner.  Implicit in the
order allowing that deposition to be held is the notion that motions pertaining
to that deposition also be subject to the new trial date.  It would make no sense to allow the discovery
to go forward but afford the party taking the deposition no way to enforce the
order or be sure that the deposition was conducted properly.  Thus, a motion to compel related to the
deposition could be heard up to 15 days before the July 22, 2024 trial
date.  At the hearing, the referee
suggested that interrogatories be propounded. 
Had there been an objection, the interrogatories would have been out of
time and improper.  But because both
parties agreed to allow the interrogatories, they were not improper.  O’Gara still contends that it never agreed to
this but rather was ordered against its will. 
That is not how the court reads the transcript.  It appears that the referee suggested a
procedure, all parties agreed to it, and the referee based his order on that
agreement.  While it is true that there
is an order, an order made on stipulation is fundamentally different than one
made over objection.  If the order is
made over objection, the objections are preserved.  If it is made on stipulation, objections (all
objections) are waived.  There is an
interesting question whether the parties can stipulate in a binding way to
extend the discovery cut off dates; there is at least an argument that they
cannot.  As a practical matter, almost
any court would “SO ORDER” such a stipulation, thereby making it binding.  But absent that step, there is a line of
logic that suggests that the stipulation is no more than an agreement of the
parties and not enforceable.  While the
referee did so order, one might contend that he lacked the power to do so.  But all of that said, the parties can, by
stipulation, extend the referee’s authority somewhat, and the court believes
that such is precisely what happened here. 
When the referee asked the parties if they would agree to allow further
interrogatories as a way of moving forward and both agreed, they allowed the
referee to make an appropriate order to that extent without further court
approval.  It is too much of a trap for
the unwary and a game to allow the parties to agree to a procedure that the
referee orders based thereon and then have one party claim a “gotcha” moment
claiming their fingers were crossed. 
Elementary notions of estoppel bar such a claim.  Therefore, the court is of the view that the
special interrogatories suggested by the referee on September 11, 2023, and
agreed upon by the parties, were subject to the cut off based on the July 22,
2024, trial date.  That means that
motions related to those interrogatories were governed by the later cut off
date as well.
 
And that is where the problem lies.  With an operative trial date of July 22,
2024, the motion had to be heard no later than July 8, 2024 (assuming that it
is the following Monday rather than the preceding Friday that is the cut off
where the 15th day is a Sunday).  To have
such a motion timely heard would require that it be filed no later than June
12, 2024, if served personally.  If that
motion were timely filed, one could make a Sentry type argument that the
court had an obligation to hear it notwithstanding its calendar.  But if the motion were made after June 12,
2024, then the motion is out of time. 
True, an application to hear the motion on shortened time could be made,
but that application need not be granted of right.  That would be a matter within the court’s
discretion.  Here, the motion was filed
on July 5, 2024—well after the last day to file the motion and have a right to
have it heard.  (Note that it is the
hearing date that counts, not the filing date.) 
An ex parte application to refer the motion to the referee and
have it heard on shortened time was filed on July 10, 2024, but by then it was
already too late.  (O’Gara also argues
that the motion was untimely because it was not filed within the 45 day period
allowed for motions to compel further. 
The last day to file such a motion would have been July 2, 2024.  Plaintiffs state that they tried to file on
that date, but the court rejected the filing. 
Because the court finds that it was untimely anyway, the court need not
decide whether the 45 day period is extended where a party attempts to file in
a timely manner but the filing is rejected and whether the answer to that
question depends on the reasons for the rejection and how those reasons would
apply here.)
 
Thus, the court must agree with the referee.  For plaintiffs to have their motion heard
after the discovery cut off date, they had to bring a motion to extend the time
to have such motions heard or re-open discovery in that way.  The court would then need to consider such a
request using the factors set forth in the Code and case law.  Under Pelton-Shepard, such a motion,
if then granted, might have been enough. 
But no such motion was made, and the court agrees with the referee that
the Pelton-Shepherd requirements are not optional.  Because there was no such timely motion made,
the referee was without power to consider the motion’s merits, and this court
is without power as well.
 
O’Gara wants the court to go a step further and sanction
plaintiffs for bringing the motion.  The
court believes that there was enough nuance and confusion such that there was
substantial justification for the motion procedurally, and thus will not impose
sanctions.
 
In short, the court accepts the referee’s report and
recommendation and the objections of both parties (plaintiffs’ objections to
the merits of the recommendation and O’Gara’s objection to the failure to award
sanctions) are OVERRULED.  The referee’s
decision is APPROVED AS THE ORDER OF THE COURT. 

 
(The court appreciates the Shakespeare quote, although the
opposition was 12 pages—not quite a paragon of brevity.)
 
In light of that, the court will discuss aspects of the
upcoming trial and rulings in limine.