 Case Number:  23NWLC00793    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  25 Hearing Date:                        
Wednesday, November 1, 2023 
Case Name:                             CREDITORS ADJUSTMENT BUREAU, INC. v. RONNIE M PEREZ
Case No.:                                23NWLC00793 
Motion:                                   1. Motion to Compel Responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories (Set One)
                                                2.
Motion to Compel Responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Identification,
Production, Inspection and Copying of Documents (Set One)                 
Moving Party:                         Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau 
Responding Party:                   None 
Notice:                                    OK 
 
Tentative Ruling:           Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to their First Set of Special Interrogatories is
GRANTED.  Defendant is ORDERED to provide
code-compliant and objection-free responses within 20 days from notice of
ruling.  Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED.  Defendant is
ORDERED to pay sanctions in the amount of $822.75 within 30 days from notice of
ruling. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to their First Set of Demand for Identification, Production,
Inspection, and Copying of Documents is GRANTED.  Defendant is ORDERED to provide
code-compliant and objection-free responses and requested documents within 20
days from notice of ruling.  Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ORDERED to pay sanctions in the amount of $822.75 within 30
days from notice of ruling. 
 

BACKGROUND 
 
            On January
10, 2023, Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc. filed a Complaint against
Defendants Ronnie M Perez AKA Ron Perez DBA Ron’s Concrete Construction ADBA
Ron’s Construction, and Does 1 through 10 alleging four causes of action for
(1) breach of contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; and (4)
reasonable value.  The Complaint alleges
that Defendant became indebted to Plaintiff’s assignor, State Compensation
Insurance Fund.   
 
            On August
18, 2023, Plaintiff filed the following two instant motions: (1) Motion to
Compel Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One); and (2)
Motion to Compel Responses to Plaintiff’s Demand for Identification,
Production, Inspection, and Copying of Documents (Set One).  In connection with each motion, Plaintiff
also requests monetary sanctions against Defendant.  
 
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION 
 
Plaintiff propounded discovery requests on Defendant on May
4, 2023.  Defendant has not filed
responses to date.  
 
OPPOSITION 
 
None. 
 
REPLY 
 
None. 
ANALYSIS 
 
I.          Legal Standard
 
Compel Responses to
Interrogatories & Request for Production of Documents 
 
Within 30 days after service of interrogatories or request
for production of documents, the party to whom the discovery requests are propounded
shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party,
unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for
response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended
the time for response. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.260, subd. (a); 2031.260, subd.
(a).)¿ 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories or request for
production of documents are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary
sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc §§ 2030.290,
subd. (b); 2031.300, subd. (b).)  
 
A party waives its objections, including one based on
privilege or work-product protection, to a discovery request when it does not
serve a timely response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290, subd. (a);
2031.300, subd. (a).) 
 
A motion to
compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and
conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate
statement.  (See Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,
404.)
 
Sanctions
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . .
. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the
court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ Failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)¿
Sanctions are mandatory
in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and request
for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c); 2031.300, subd. (c).)  
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subdivision
(a), “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
II.        Discussion  
 
Here, the special interrogatories (set one)
and request for production (set one) were propounded on May 4, 2023, and no
responses have been received to either. 
(Declarations of Tiffanie Brown ISO Special ROGS & Documents, ¶¶ 2, 4; Ex. “1.” and Ex. “2.”)  A
party waives its objections, including one based on privilege or work-product
protection, to a discovery request when it does not serve a timely response to
the request.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290, subd. (a); 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
Accordingly, the motions are GRANTED. 
 
In connection with each motion, Plaintiff requests monetary
sanctions of $1,572.75 (3 hours incurred at hourly rate of $500, plus filing
fee of $60 and e-filing fee of $12.75). 
(Brown Decl. ¶ 5.)  Considering that Plaintiff’s unopposed
motions are brief, substantively similar, and will be heard at a single
hearing, the Court reduces the total number of hours requested by Plaintiff’s
counsel for each motion to a total of 1.5 hours.  Accordingly, the request for sanctions is
GRANTED for each motion in the reduced amount of $822.75 (1.5 hours incurred at
hourly rate of $500, plus filing fee of $60 and e-filing fee of $12.75).

 
 
III.       Conclusion  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Responses to their First Set of Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.  Defendant is ORDERED to provide
code-compliant and objection-free responses within 20 days from notice of
ruling.  Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED.  Defendant is
ORDERED to pay sanctions in the amount of $822.75 within 30 days from notice of
ruling. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Responses to their First Set of Demand for Identification, Production,
Inspection, and Copying of Documents is GRANTED.  Defendant is ORDERED to provide
code-compliant and objection-free responses and requested documents within 20
days from notice of ruling.  Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ORDERED to pay sanctions in the amount of $822.75 within 30
days from notice of ruling. 
 Counsel for the moving party is ordered to give notice.