    BACKGROUND On May 22, 2023,  Petitioner Sandra Cohen (“Petitioner” or “Cohen”) filed the instant Petition to  Compel Arbitration (“Petition”) seeking an order compelling Respondents  Xsiavosh Asrabadi (“Asrabadi”) and Bahreh Qmarsi (“Qmarsi”) (collectively  “Respondents”) to arbitrate a controversy pursuant to a California Residential  Purchase Agreement (“Agreement”) entered into by Petitioner and Respondents.  On August 16, 2023, the  Court rejected Petitioner’s Requests for Entry of Default/Judgment against  Respondents. (8-16-23 Notices of Rejection.)  No opposition has been  filed.  MOVING PARTY  POSITION Petitioner requests that  the court order Respondents to first mediate the controversy in question, and  if mediation does not resolve the matter, then a binding arbitration to be  conducted, all in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. OPPOSITION               None.   REPLY               None. ANALYSIS   I.          Petition  to Compel Arbitration A.                 Legal Standard  Pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the  court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement  to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds  exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may  render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common  issues.  When seeking to compel  arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the  existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. (Ruiz  v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa v.  Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.) It is  sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration agreement  or set forth the agreement’s provisions. (Gamboa, 72 Cal.App.5th at  165.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance  of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract or the arbitration  clause. (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa, 72 Cal.App.5th at  165.) Subsequently, the moving party must establish with the preponderance of  admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. (Ibid.)  The trial court then weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion  to make a final determination. (Ibid.) “California law, ‘like [federal  law], reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires  close judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’” (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific  Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.)  If the court orders  arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is  completed. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)  B.                  Analysis Around August 8, 2020,  Petitioner and Respondents entered into a California Residential Purchase  Agreement (“Agreement”). (Pet. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Pursuant to the Agreement,  paragraph 22(B), “the parties agreed that any dispute or claim in law or equity  arising between them out of the Agreement or any resulting transaction, which  is not first settled through mediation, shall be decided by neutral, binding  arbitration.” (Ibid.)  In September 2020, a  dispute arose between Petitioner, as seller of the Property, and Respondents,  as potential buyers of the Property, because Respondents attempted to cancel  the Agreement and demand the release of the buyer’s deposit. (Ibid. at ¶ 5.) Around  September 30, 2020 and January 3, 2023, Petitioner sent a letter demanding  mediation pursuant to paragraph 21 of the Agreement. (Ibid. at ¶ 8.)  Respondents did not respond to the letter. (Ibid.) Around March 31,  2023, Petitioner again demanded mediation and informed Respondents that she  would move to compel arbitration of the dispute if they did not respond by  April 7, 2023. (Ibid. at ¶ 9.) Respondents did not respond to  Petitioner’s communications. (Ibid.)  Petitioner requests that  the Court order Respondents to first mediate the dispute, and if that does not  resolve the controversy, to compel arbitration of the dispute. (Ibid. at  p. 3.)  The Court finds that  Petitioner has presented the Agreement, entered into by Petitioner and  Respondents, which contains a provision for arbitration of disputes arising out  of the Agreement. (Pet. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) The provision states that “[t]he Parties  agree to mediate any dispute or claim arising between them out of this  Agreement, or any resulting transaction, before resorting to arbitration or  court action.” (Ibid. at ¶ 22A.) Petitioner has shown that it has attempted to  mediate the dispute; however, Respondents have not been responsive to  Petitioner’s demands. Thus, the Court finds that Petitioner is entitled to a  Court order compelling arbitration of the dispute.  However, the Court found  in tthe September 25, 2023 minute order that the Petition was unclear regarding  the form of relief requested. Petitioner filed a Petition to Compel Arbitration  based on Code of Civil Procedure §1281.2; however, at the end of the Petition,  “Petitioner prays 1. That the court order Respondents to first mediate the controversy  in question, and if mediation does not resolve the matter, then a binding  arbitration hearing shall be conducted, all in accordance with the terms of the  Agreement.” (Pet. p. 3.)  Given the lack of  clarity, the Court continued the hearing on the Petition. Petitioner was  ordered to file supplemental papers clarifying whether she is moving for an  order compelling arbitration or whether she wishes to proceed with mediation.  Petitioner was also ordered to file the letters sent to Respondents demanding  mediation of the controversy. However, Petitioner has failed to timely provide  these supplemental papers. Thus, the petition is denied without prejudice.   III.       Conclusion  For the reasons  discussed above, the Petition is denied without prejudice.Moving Party  to give notice.    