 Case Number:  23STCV30780    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative
Ruling: 
Cross-Defendant Jacob
David Smith’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
            Cross-defendant
Jacob David Smith demurs to the fourth cause of action alleged in the first
amended cross-complaint by cross-complainant Chancie Elizabeth
Ann Meehan.
            Meehan alleges sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action for prescriptive easement.  “To establish the elements of a prescriptive
easement, the claimant must prove use of the property, for the statutory period
of five years, which use has been (1) open and notorious; (2) continuous and
uninterrupted; (3) hostile to the true owner; and (4) under claim of
right.”  (Harrison v. Welch (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1090.)  Smith’s
demurrer does not argue Meehan fails to allege the basic elements for
prescriptive easement.   
            Smith contends this cause of action
fails because Meehan seeks an exclusive easement by prescription.  The law generally “prohibit[s] the
acquisition of an easement by prescription where the easement would deprive the
property owner of all or most practical uses of the easement area.”  (Romero v. Shih (2024) 15 Cal.5th 680,
696.)  “Where an incorporeal interest in
the use of land becomes so comprehensive as to supply the equivalent of
ownership, and conveys an unlimited use of real property, it constitutes an
estate, not an easement.”  (Mehdizadeh
v. Mincer (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1296, 1306 (Mehdizadeh).)  
When
liberally construed in cross-complainant’s favor, the allegations of the first
amended cross-complaint do not show that the easement sought would be exclusive
or deprive Smith of all or most practical uses. 
Meehan alleges that, for the past 22 years, she has occupied the
disputed portion neighboring properties “(on her side of the Boundary Fence)
with a variety of structures, a variety
of structures, improvements, landscaping, underground plumbing and electrical.”  (FACC, ¶ 18.) 
Meehan alleges, “[T]he improvements include, but are not limited to”
four things: (a) “An 800-gallon rain water tank structure (8-foot diameter and
6-foot tall)”, (b) “A pool
filtration system on a concrete slab”, (c) “Mature native landscape” including
several trees, and (d) “Retaining walls and subterranean irrigation on several
levels of the MEEHAN Property, extending into the Disputed Area.”  (FACC, ¶ 19.) 

The first amended cross-complaint’s fourth cause of
action for prescriptive easement alleges Meehan “seeks use of the Disputed Area
for the express purpose of maintaining the Improvements.  Specifically, Cross-Complainant wishes to
continue use of the Improvements over the Disputed Area, to wit, maintaining
the following: (i) the 800-gallon rain water tank structure, (ii) the pool
filtration system on a concrete slab, serviced by an underground electrical and
plumbing system, (iii) the mature native landscape planted to protect against
hillside erosion, and (iv) the retaining walls and subterranean irrigation on
several levels of the MEEHAN Property that extend into the Disputed Area.”  (FACC, ¶ 52.)
From the face of the first amended cross-complaint,
the court cannot conclude the easement would be exclusive.  Meehan does not allege the size of the
disputed area or, apart from the “8-foot diameter and 6-foot tall” water tank
(FACC, ¶ 19.A), how much space the improvements take up.  Meehan does not assert a prescriptive
easement for exclusive use of, for example, 1,600 contiguous square feet.  Instead, she asserts a prescriptive easement
to maintain specified improvements. 
Without knowing the size of the improvements or the size of the disputed
area, the court cannot conclude that, as a matter of law, the purported
easement would be so extensive as to constitute exclusive possession or ownership.
Smith relies on cases rejecting prescriptive
easements as exclusive where a fence barred the servient tenement’s owner from
entry.  (Kapner v. Meadowlark Ranch
Assn. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1187 [“Because Kapner enclosed and
possessed the land in question, his claim to a prescriptive easement is without
merit”]; Mehdizadeh, supra, 46 Cal.App.4th at p. 1305 [“A fence will bar
the Mincers’ access to the property, and they cannot build on, cultivate, or
otherwise use it”]; Silacci v. Abramson (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 558, 560
[dominant tenement owners “fenced in and used as a backyard some 1,600 square
feet” of servient tenement].)  
Meehan alleges the disputed area of the property is
“on her side of the Boundary Fence.” 
(FACC, ¶ 18.)  But the fourth
cause of action seeks a prescriptive easement to “continue use of the
Improvements,” consisting of the four specified items or categories, not
including the fence itself.  (¶ 52.)  When liberally construed in Meehan’s favor,
the purported prescriptive easement would not include a fence barring Smith
from entering the disputed property.
Cross-defendant Jacob David Smith’s demurrer to the
first amended cross-complaint is overruled. 
Cross-defendant shall answer the first amended cross-complaint within 20
days.  
 