 Case Number:  24TRCV00119    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ ComplaintMoving Party: Defendants America Rodriguez and Oscar RodriguezResponding Party: NoneRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety without leave to amend.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn January 1, 2024, Plaintiffs Estate of Jeffrey B. Lanie (the “decedent”); Jeffrey E. Lanie (“Jeffrey E.”) and Denise A. Lanie (“Denise”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants America Rodriguez (“America”) and Oscar Rodriguez (“Oscar) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle; (2) Negligence; and (3) Wrongful Death.On March 18, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to strike Plaintiffs’ request for exemplary damages.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn January 16, 2022, Defendants were involved in a motor vehicle accident with the decedent. (Complaint, p. 5.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants caused the accident by driving or operating the vehicle negligently. (Complaint, p. 5.)LEGAL STANDARDThe court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Code of Civil Procedure section 431.10 states, “(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following: (1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense. (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint. (c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in Section 436.”DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsDefendants contend that Plaintiffs’ factual allegations do not support a request for punitive damages.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and Confer“Before filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.” (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 435.5, subd. (a).) If no agreement is reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)Defense counsel declares that the parties met telephonically to discuss the deficiencies in the complaint but were unable to reach an agreement.Accordingly, the court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.B. Punitive DamagesIn non-contract actions, punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc., 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63 (2010).) “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages. (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank, 50 Cal. App. 3d 949, 958 (1975).) The allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not enough. (Smith v. Superior Court, 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-1042 (1992).)Here, Plaintiffs only allege that “Defendants, and each of them, so negligently owned, maintained, operated, entrusted, and/or drove a motor vehicle so as to cause injuries and damages to Plaintiffs.” Plaintiffs do not allege that Defendants acted in an oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious manner. Thus, Plaintiffs have not met the pleading requirements for punitive damages.Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED in its entirety.Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Plaintiffs do not argue that they can successfully amend the complaint to maintain a request for punitive damages. Thus, the court finds that there is no possibility of successful amendment.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED in its entirety without leave to amend.Defendants to give notice.