  Case Number:  23TRCV03792    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  P Motion for Protective OrderMoving Parties: Defendants Pacific Bell Telephone Co. and Murray Dennis Jr.Responding Party: Plaintiff Keith PennettiRULINGThe Court considered the moving papers and opposition. Defendants’ motion for protective order is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn November 15, 2023, Plaintiff Keith Pennetti (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against AT&T Services, Inc. d/b/a AT&T and Murray Dennis Jr. (“Dennis”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence and (2) General Negligence.On July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint to fix an incorrectly named defendant. Plaintiff erroneously named AT&T Services, Inc. when the defendant’s true name was Pacific Bell Telephone Company d/b/a AT&T California (“AT&T”).On September 9, 2024, Defendants filed an admission of liability. Defendants admit that they are liable for the accident but do not admit that they caused all of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.On September 18, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion for a protective order to (1) limit the scope of deposition and (2) stay the deposition. On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff alleges that Murray is an employee of AT&T. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) On November 20, 2021, Dennis was operating a vehicle owned by AT&T and crossed a double yellow center-line, colliding head-on with Plaintiff’s car. (Complaint, ¶¶ 11-12.)LEGAL STANDARDThe court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).) The court may make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other affected person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).) This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)The court shall restrict the frequency or extent of use of a discovery method if it determines either of the following:1. The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.2. The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation.Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (a) provides, in relevant part: “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (a).)  “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. The decision upon whether to enter a protective order lies within the sound discretion of the court.  (Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588, 591; Meritplan Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 237, 242.) Moving parties have the burden to show good cause for protective order. (Emerson Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1101, 1110.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendants argue that the deposition should be limited to matters of causation, speed, damage to vehicles, injuries, and conversations at the scene of the accident because Defendants already admitted fault, and any other issues would be irrelevant.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff contends that his counsel already agreed to avoid impermissible topics during the deposition. As such, this motion was unnecessary. Further, Defendants have not shown that there is good cause for granting the motion.Merits of the MotionA. Meet and Confer “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)Defense counsel declares that the parties met and conferred but were unable to reach a resolution. The court finds that the parties have satisfied the meet and confer requirements.B. Good Cause“In accordance with the liberal policies underlying the discovery procedures, California courts have been broad-minded in determining whether discovery is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 172; Pettie v. Superior Court (1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 680, 687.) As a practical matter, it is difficult to define at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant at trial. Therefore, the party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial leeway. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 172.) Furthermore, California’s liberal approach to permissible discovery generally has led the courts to resolve any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Id. at p. 173.) In doing so, the courts have taken the view if an error is made in ruling on a discovery motion, it is better that it be made in favor of granting discovery of the nondiscoverable rather than denying discovery of information vital to preparation or presentation of the party's case or to efficacious settlement of the dispute.” (Norton v. Superior Court (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.)Defendants cite to Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1154-58 to support their contention that the information sought by Plaintiff is irrelevant and inadmissible. The Diaz Court found that an employer’s admission of vicarious liability made claims of negligent entrustment, hiring, or retention irrelevant. (Id. at p. 1158.) Defendants argue that they would be prejudiced without a protective order because the deposition would be longer and more expensive for the sake of eliciting irrelevant information.Plaintiff argues that the Diaz Court did not rule on claims of punitive damages. While Plaintiff does not currently seek punitive damages, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that he reserves the right to do so after conducting the Murray deposition. Further, Plaintiff contends that Defendants have only made bare assertions that the deposition is “irrelevant, oppressive, or unduly burdensome.” Thus, the protective order is premature and unjustified and should not be granted.In light of the liberal policy surrounding discovery, the court determines that Defendants have not shown that there is good cause for staying the deposition or limiting its scope at this time. If Defendants determine that Plaintiff has obtained information that is prejudicial or irrelevant, it may raise an objection during the deposition or file a motion in limine afterwards.Accordingly, Defendants’ motion is DENIED in its entirety.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion is DENIED. Defendants must submit Murray Dennis Jr. for deposition within 14 days of this hearing. Parties may stipulate to extend this deadline.Plaintiff to give notice of ruling.