  Case Number:  20STCV14015    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




kazem sanikhatam, by and through his
  successor-in-interest Mitra Azizi

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
persian-american adult day health care
  center, inc., d/b/a FOREVER YOUNG ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE CENTER

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV14015




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   23, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Persian-American Adult
Day Health Care Center, Inc., d/b/a Forever Young Adult Day Health Care Center,
Vardkes Ken Esrailian, and Abdul Toukhi
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Kazem Sanikhatam, by and through
his successor-in-interest Mitra Azizi, and Mitra Azizi  
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiffs Kazem Sanikhatam, by and through his
successor-in-interest Mitra Azizi, and Mitra Azizi’s evidentiary
objections, filed on April 11, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 2-6.
The court overrules Objection No. 1.[1]
The court does not rule on defendants Persian-American Adult Day Health Care
Center, Inc., d/b/a Forever Young Adult Day Health Care Center, Vardkes Ken
Esrailian, and Abdul Toukhi’s evidentiary objections, filed on April 16,
2024, because the objections are directed to evidence that is not material to
the court’s disposition of this motion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Persian-American Adult Day Health
Care Center, Inc., d/b/a Forever Young Adult Day Health Care Center (“Forever
Young”), Vardkes Ken Esrailian, and Abdul Toukhi (“Toukhi”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
filed the pending motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication against plaintiffs Kazem Sanikhatam, by and through his
successor-in-interest Mitra Azizi (“Sanikhatam”), and Mitra Azizi (“Azizi”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on February 8, 2024, moving the court for an order
granting summary judgment in their favor and against Plaintiffs on the First
Amended Complaint. 
1.    
Procedural Issues
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiffs
have argued, in their opposition, that Defendants’ notice of motion for summary
adjudication is defective.  The court
agrees. 
“If summary adjudication is sought, whether
separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the
specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of
duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated,
verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd. (b).) 
Here, Defendants’ notice of motion states
only that they move the court for an order granting, “alternatively, . . .
Summary Adjudication on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material
fact on any of [Plaintiffs’] . . . claims and/or causes of action against
Defendants, thus entitling the latter to summary judgment and/or summary
adjudication.”  (Notice of Mot., p. 2:3-11.)  Defendants’ notice of motion does not state
the specific causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues
of duty on which Defendants seek summary adjudication, and their separate
statement of material facts does not repeat, verbatim, that information as
required.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule
3.1350; Notice of Mot., p. 2:3-11; Def. Separate Statement.)  
Moreover, the court also notes that
Defendants’ separate statement does not “separately identify” (1) each cause of
action, affirmative defense, claim for damage, or issue of duty that is the
subject of their motion, and (2) each supporting material fact claimed to be
without dispute with respect to the cause of action, affirmative defense, claim
for damages, or issue of duty that is the subject of the motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1350, subd.
(d).)  Instead, Defendants’ separate
statement sets forth 13 material facts without identifying the specific causes
of action that are the subject of this motion and which material facts support
their motion as to each cause of action. 
(Def. Separate Statement, p. 1:22 [titling chart to be “Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts”] [internal emphasis omitted].)
Thus, the court finds that, because
Defendants have not complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, their
notice of motion for summary adjudication is defective.  
The court therefore evaluates whether
Defendants have met their burden to show that they are entitled to summary
judgment on Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.  
2.    
Motion for Summary Judgment
The court finds that Defendants have not met
their burden to show that the first cause of action has no merit and therefore
have not shown that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law on
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
Plaintiffs have alleged their first cause of
action for elder abuse / neglect against all Defendants under the Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600
et seq.) (the “Elder Abuse Act”).
“[N]eglect as a form of elder abuse under
the Elder Abuse Act refers ‘to the failure of those responsible for attending
to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults regardless of
their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.’  [Citation.]” 
(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 404.)  An Elder Abuse
Act plaintiff must show “that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting
the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration,
hygiene or medical care [citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder
or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs
[citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the
elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff
alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness)
[citations].  The plaintiff must also
allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect
caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental
suffering.  [Citations.] “  (Id. at pp. 406-407 [internal
citations omitted].) 
The court notes that it is unclear which
element(s) of the first cause of action Defendants contend cannot be
established by Plaintiffs, but it appears that Defendants have argued that
Plaintiffs cannot establish (1) that Defendants denied or withheld goods or
services to Sanikhatam that were necessary to meet his basic needs, and (2)
causation.  (Mot., pp. 9:12-14 [summarily
stating that Defendants have met their burden to show facts “to negate all
essential elements of each” cause of action] [emphasis added], 10:13-19
[quoting law setting forth the elements of (1) denial or withholding of goods
or services necessary to meet the elder’s basic needs and (2) causation]; Carter,
supra, 198 CalAp.4th at pp. 406-407.) 

The court finds that Defendants
have not met their burden of showing that the first cause of action for elder
abuse / neglect has no merit because Defendants have not shown that the
elements of (1) Defendants’ withholding or denial of good or services to
Sanikhatam, or (2) causation cannot be established. 
First, the court finds that Defendants have
not shown that Plaintiffs’ discovery responses prove that Plaintiffs are unable
to establish the elements of their first cause of action under the Elder Abuse
Act. 
Defendants have submitted evidence of
Azizi’s response to defendant Forever Young’s Form Interrogatories, number
17.1, contending that the statements made therein “are enough to prove [that
Plaintiffs] cannot meet their burden to defeat summary judgment.”  (Mot., p. 11:19-20.)  The court disagrees.  In response to interrogatory number 17.1,
Azizi set forth various facts in support of Plaintiffs’ claims, including, inter
alia, that (1) Sanikhatam was an elder under the Elder Abuse Act, (2)
Defendants were to provide to him care or services, (3) Defendants owed
Sanikhatam a duty of care, (4) on January 16, 2020, Sanikhatam used the
transportation service provided by defendant Forever Young, (5) on that date,
the driver of the van, defendant Toukhi, did not assist Sanikhatam as he
boarded the van, (6) Sanikhatam suffered a fall when he attempted to board the
van, and (7) Toukhi called Forever Young to report the incident and was
directed by the facility not to call 911 or transport Sanikhatam to the
hospital for treatment in order to cover up the incident.  (Mitrovich Decl., Ex. C, pp. 36:21-39:12,
44:2-46:12, 51:3-53:15, 58:7-60:18.)  
While the court agrees that “[a] plaintiff’s
‘factually devoid’ discovery responses may be used to shift the burden of
production onto the plaintiff[,]” the burden is shifted only “when the ‘logical
inference’ is that the plaintiff possesses no facts to support his or her
claims.”  (Bayramoglu v. Nationstar
Mortgage LLC (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 726, 733.)  Azizi’s discovery responses set forth various
facts on which Plaintiffs base their causes of action and do not support the
“‘logical inference’” that Plaintiffs possess “no facts to support” their
claims.  (Ibid.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendants have
not met their burden to show that Plaintiffs cannot establish the elements of
denial or withholding of necessary goods to Sanikhatam or causation based on
plaintiff Azizi’s discovery responses. 
Second, the court finds that defendant
Toukhi’s deposition testimony is insufficient to show that Plaintiffs cannot
establish that Defendants (1) withheld or denied to Sanikhatam goods or
services necessary to meet his basic needs or (2) caused Sanikhatam’s injuries.
 
Defendants have submitted the deposition
testimony of defendant Toukhi, in which he testified that, on an unidentified
date, Sanikhatam instructed Toukhi “to hold his walker steady from the front,
and [Toukhi] did[,]” and as Sanikhatam was getting onto an elevator, Toukhi was
holding onto his walker.  (Mitrovich Decl.,
Ex. D, Toukhi Dep., p. 42:7-23.) 
Defendants have submitted this evidence to argue that “there was no
elder abuse or neglect that occurred” on the date of the subject incident.  (Mot., p. 12:27-28.)  However, the court finds that this evidence
is insufficient to show that Plaintiffs cannot establish the challenged
elements because (1) the deposition transcript submitted by Defendants omits
pertinent information regarding the conduct described, including whether Toukhi
testified that he was holding onto Sanikhatam’s walker on the date of the
incident that is the subject of this action or on another date, and (2) this
testimony does not address each legal theory supporting the first cause of
action, including Plaintiffs’ claims that (i) Defendants knew that Toukhi was
not trained to assist Sanikhatam with ambulating to and from the transport car
(FAC ¶¶ 29, 109), and (ii) Defendants are guilty of neglect because they
did not transfer Sanikhatam to an acute care facility in an attempt to cover up
the incident[2] (FAC ¶¶ 34, 107).   (Mitrovich Decl., Ex. D, Toukhi Dep., p.
42:24 [asking Toukhi for confirmation that “This was on January 16th?”], 42:25
[partial response from Toukhi stating [“These things they happened what, like,
four”].) 
Third, the court finds that the deposition
testimony of Eleanor Garcia (“Garcia”) is insufficient to show that Plaintiffs
cannot establish the elements of (1) the denial or withholding of goods to
Sanikhatam necessary to meet his basic needs or (2) causation.
Defendants contend that “further evidence
that [they] did not abuse or neglect [Sanikhatam] can be found in the testimony
of nurse [Garcia],” a nurse on duty when Sanikhatam arrived at Forever
Young.  (Mot., p. 13:22-26.)  The court disagrees.  Garcia testified only that, on an
unidentified date, Sanikhatam thanked an individual named Malak for helping
him.  (Mitrovich Decl., Ex. E, Garcia
Dep., p. 60:16-18.)  This testimony does
not establish that (1) Defendants did not withhold or deny services to Sanikhatam
that were necessary to meet his basic needs, or (2) Defendants’ conduct did not
cause Sanikhatam to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering.  (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4t
at pp. 406-407.) 
Fourth, the court finds that Defendants have
not submitted admissible evidence from an expert establishing that they did not
(1) neglect Sanikhatam, or (2) cause Sanikhatam’s injuries. 
The court has sustained Plaintiffs’
evidentiary objections to Sanikhatam’s medical records because they were not
properly authenticated.  Thus, Dr.
Rosen’s expert medical opinions regarding the existence of neglect, the cause
of Sanikhatam’s death, and the proper standard of care have “no evidentiary
value[,]” and the court has sustained Plaintiffs’ objections to those
conclusions.  (Garibay v. Hemmat (2008)
161 Cal.App.4th 735, 743.)  
The court therefore finds that Defendants
have not met their burden to submit admissible, competent evidence showing that
they did not (1) withhold or deny goods or services necessary to meet
Sanikhatam’s basic needs, or (2) cause Sanikhatam’s injuries. 
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the
court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to show that Plaintiffs’
first cause of action for elder abuse / neglect has no merit.  Because Defendants have not shown that the
first cause of action has no merit, the court finds that Defendants have not
met their burden to “show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that [Defendants] [are] entitled to a judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c).)  The court therefore denies
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
Finally, the court notes that, as discussed,
the court has found that Defendants’ request for summary adjudication was
improper and defective.  However, even if
Defendants had properly noticed their request for summary adjudication, the
court would find that they did not meet their burden to show that Plaintiffs’
second, third, and fourth causes of action have no merit.  
As to the second and third causes of action
for negligence and negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, respectively,
Defendants have argued that Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of
causation.  (Mot., pp. 15:21-24,
15:26-16:2; Peredia v. HR Mobile Services (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687
[elements of negligence].)  Defendants
have relied solely on the declaration of Dr. Rosen in support of this
assertion.  However, the court has found
that Dr. Rosen’s conclusions have “no evidentiary value” and therefore are
insufficient to show that Plaintiffs cannot establish the element of
causation.  (Garibay, supra,
161 Cal.App.4th at p. 743.)  
Similarly, as to the fourth cause of action
for wrongful death, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs cannot establish the
element of causation, relying on Sanikhatam’s death certificate and his medical
records.  (Mot., pp. 16:11-13,
16:26-17:11.)  However, the court (1)
finds that the cause of death listed on the death certificate does not
establish that Defendants did not contribute to Sanikhatam’s injuries and
subsequent death and therefore does not show that Plaintiffs cannot establish
the element of causation, and (2) has sustained Plaintiffs’ evidentiary
objections to the medical records, such that they cannot support Defendants’
assertion that they did not cause Sanikhatam’s death.  (Mitrovich Decl., Ex. A; Musgrove v.
Silver (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 694, 705 [elements of cause of action for wrongful
death].) 
ORDER
The court denies defendants Persian-American Adult Day Health Care Center, Inc.,
d/b/a Forever Young Adult Day Health Care Center, Vardkes Ken Esrailian, and
Abdul Toukhi’s motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary
adjudication. 
The court orders plaintiffs Kazem Sanikhatam, by and through his
successor-in-interest Mitra Azizi, and Mitra Azizi to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 23, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


