  Case Number:  21GDCV00932    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 27, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         JOHNNY TRANG, an
individual, v. CITY OF PASADENA, a public entity, VAROOJAN AVEDIAN, an
individual; SUZANNE STONE, an individual; and DOES 1 through 30,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV00932
 
 
 
EX
PARTE APPLICATION TO SEAL COURT RECORDS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Johnny Trang
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 19, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff files an ex parte
application to seal court records. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff’s
Johnny Trang (“Plaintiff”) claim that he was subjected to discrimination during
his employment with the City of Pasadena. Plaintiff filed this complaint on
July 15, 2021, alleging seven causes of action for (1) disability
discrimination, (2) work environment harassment, (3) retaliation, (4) failure
to prevent harassment discrimination and retaliation, (5) retaliation, (6)
failure to provide reasonable accommodation, and (7) failure to engage in good
faith interactive process. 
             
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s application to seal is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under
seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 2.550, subd. (d). (Emphasis added) 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order sealing documents pertaining to his medical condition and
employment history. Plaintiff seeks an order replacing nine documents filed in
the course of this litigation with redacted versions. The nine documents
include: (1) Plaintiff’s complaint, (2) Defendant’s motion to compel mental
examination, (3) Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s motion, (4) Defendant’s
reply, (5) this court’s ruling on Defendant’s motion to compel, (6) Defendant’s
notice of ruling, (7) Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, (8) Plaintiff’s
opposition to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, and (9) Defendant’s reply.

 
            California
courts have “recognized ‘that a person's medical history, including psychological
records, falls within the zone of informational privacy protected’ by the state
and federal Constitutions.” (Oiye v. Fox (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1036,
1068.) 
 
            Plaintiff,
in part, relies on Oiye to support his motion. In Oiye, the trial
court had ordered sealed documents that amounted to the plaintiff’s personal
treatment journal, and the plaintiff was unaware how defendant obtained those
documents. (Oiye, supra, 211 Cal.App.4th at p. 1063.) The appellate
court noted that “disclosure to an opponent in civil litigation does not
necessarily waive the patient's privilege to keep the information from third
parties, including the public.” (Id. at p. 1068.)  Aside from this analysis of whether the Plaintiff
has shown an overriding interest that supports sealing, the Plaintiff requests that
the court redact a whole host of documents. 
These documents include copies of the complaint which they themselves filed,
along with various motions and even court rulings and minute orders which
contain no private or personal information. 
The Plaintiffs have not made any serious effort to narrowly tailor their
request as required by the aforementioned CRC. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s application to seal is therefore
DENIED. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 27, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court