 Case Number:  21STCV07431    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Wallach, et  al., v. Providence Health System So. Cal., et al. CASE NO.:                21STCV07431 MOTION:                  Demurrer  to the First Amended Complaint  HEARING DATE:   9/28/2023   Legal  Standard               A  demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the  allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects  must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not  the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the  defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§  430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate  facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim  against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie  (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,  or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen  (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)               A  special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where  the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot  reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or  claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s  of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if  the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern  discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)                 Any party, within the time allowed  to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the  whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule  3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and  upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper  matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any  pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court  rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a  pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are  surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)               “Liberality in permitting amendment  is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie  M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of  discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable  possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.  Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to  show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,  and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the  pleading. (Id.)   Analysis   Request for Judicial Notice Defendant Providence Health System Southern  California (hereinafter, the “Hospital”) requests judicial notice of the  following exhibits:   Exhibit 1: The Articles of  Incorporation of Providence Health System–Southern California filed with the  California Secretary of State, identifying the entity as a religious  corporation. Attached is a true and correct copy obtained from the California  Business Search website at https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business.  Exhibit 2: The Articles of  Incorporation of Providence Saint John’s Health Center filed with the  California Secretary of State, identifying the entity as a religious  corporation. Attached is a true and correct copy obtained from the California  Business Search website at https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/businessand;  and Exhibit 3: Deposition testimony of  Plaintiff David Wallach. Attached is a true and correct copy of pages 28-29 of  the deposition transcript taken in this matter on January 31, 2023   The request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to Exhibits 1-2 as official  acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments, and DENIED as to Exhibit 3 as irrelevant, extrinsic  evidence not appropriate at the demurrer/motion to strike stage.    Third Cause of  Action: Dependent Adult/Elder Abuse   The Hospital demurs to the third cause of  action set forth in the first amended complaint (FAC) for dependent adult/elder  abuse.  To plead dependent adult abuse,  the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had  responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,  such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care [citations]; (2) knew of  conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or  her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services  necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either with  knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or  dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with  conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff  alleges recklessness) [citations].” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise  Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.) “The plaintiff must  also allege . . . that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to  suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id. at 407.)  “[T]he facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between  the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance  with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Id.)  Furthermore, “[The definition of  neglect under the [Elder Abuse] Act does not apply unless the defendant health  care provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship,  involving ongoing responsibility for one or more basic needs,  with the elder patient. It is the nature of the elder or dependent adult's  relationship with the defendant—not the defendant's professional standing—that  makes the defendant potentially liable for neglect.” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 152, emphasis added, court of  appeal affirmed a sustained demurrer where plaintiffs could not adequately  allege neglect under the Elder Abuse Act as defendants did not have a  caretaking or custodial relationship with the decedent.) “Neglect” covers an area  of misconduct distinct from ‘professional negligence.’”  (Covenant Care,  supra, 32 Cal.4th at 783.)  “As used in the Act, neglect refers not to  the substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of  those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or  dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their  custodial obligations.’”  (Id.)   To distinguish dependent  adult abuse from professional negligence, a plaintiff must show recklessness,  fraud, malice, or oppression. (Covenant Care, Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th at  783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve intentional, willful, or conscious  wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare  Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405 (internal quotation  marks omitted).) Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high degree of  probability an injury will occur. (Id.) The enhanced remedies for  Elder Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious abuse against elder and  dependent adults.” (Id.) There must be an allegation of  authorization or ratification on the part of a managing agent in order to  recover damages for dependent adult abuse against corporate defendants. (See  Civ. Code, § 3294; Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657(c).)     The  FAC does not allege a caretaking relationship that meets the definition of the Act.  Instead, Plaintiff alleges a circumscribed engagement of limited duration where  the Hospital’s assistance with the decedent’s basic needs was incidental to its  provision of medical care.  Decedent was  under Defendants’ care for approximately 27 hours, a limited duration of time.  (FAC ¶¶ 17-23, 50-52.) Decedent relied on the Defendants’ health care services the  same way any other competent person would, including c-section delivery and postpartum  care. (FAC ¶ 56.) There are no allegations Decedent required any greater degree  of care or assistance beyond routine medical care of any other caesarean  section patient. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that the hospital staff’s assistance  with the Decedent’s basic needs of ambulation and hydration caused harm. (FAC  ¶¶ 52-56, 62.) The allegations show that this was incidental to postpartum medical  care following caesarean delivery. (Ibid.) Moreover, the FAC’s allegations  regarding the caretaking relationship are mere conclusions. (See FAC ¶¶ 51-52,  56.) However, the factual allegations only suggest a patient-provider  relationship. Such a relationship is insufficient under the Act.     The  Court is unclear whether Plaintiff will be able to amend the FAC to meet the  Act’s requirements.  As discussed in Winn,  the third cause of action as pled attempts to blur the distinction neglect and  professional negligence – which are actionable under ordinary tort remedies –  and neglect under the Act.  (See Winn,  63 Cal. 4th at 160.)  Despite these  reservations, the Court will discuss with Plaintiff whether leave to amend should  be granted, and what facts may be alleged to satisfy the pleading requirements  of the Act.   Motion to Strike The motion to strike to  the dependent adult abuse related allegations is moot as the Court granted  leave to amend on the demurrer. Plaintiff concedes that Code  of Civil Procedure section 425.14 currently bars their claim for  punitive damages. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.14.) It is undisputed that Defendant  is a religious corporation. (RJN Exs. 1 and 2.) Accordingly, Defendant’s motion  to strike the punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend. The MTS as to the allegations of fraud are DENIED, as judicial notice was  denied as to Exhibit 3.   