  Case Number:  19SMCV00158    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sanai, et al.,
v. Kreling, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00158
MOTION:                  Motion
for New Trial
HEARING DATE:   9/28/2023

 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 24, 2019, Plaintiff Cyrus
Sanai filed a complaint for recovery of attorneys’ fees against a former
client, Cobrae. The operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleges the
retainer agreements executed by Cobrae contained a provision granting Sanai an
attorney lien over all proceeds and property obtained or protected by virtue of
the performance of his legal services for Cobrae. Sanai performed legal
services on his behalf in the lawsuit of Kreling v. Cobrae in El Dorado County
Superior Court. Sanai recommended that Cobrae exercise an option to purchase
the Kyberz Property in order to avoid further litigation. Sanai negotiated,
drafted and finalized a stipulation staying the action while Cobrae sought
financing. In order to obtain financing, Cobrae refinanced a motel he owned.
The FAC alleges that “Cobrae agreed to issue escrow instructions to Defendant
The Heritage Escrow Company that Sanai would be paid from the amounts borrowed
on one or both items of real property.” (FAC, Att. 2, ¶ 5.) Sanai served a
notice of attorney's lien to Defendants Heritage, Kreling, and Cobrae. Sanai
alleges that Cobrae paid some of Sanai's fees, but the amount of $25,632.00
remains unpaid. Sanai requests enforcement of the lien against Defendants
Heritage and Kreling.
 
On November 18, 2020, a mandatory
attorney’s fee arbitration hearing between Sanai and Darren was held before a
three person panel administrated by the Beverly Hills Bar Association in Case
No. 2581-19. Defendants Heritage and Kreling were not parties to the
arbitration. The arbitrator rejected Sanai’s claims and awarded Cobrae a refund
of $32,502.84.
 
On August 11, 2021, the Court
confirmed the award in favor of Darren and against Sanai in the amount of
$32,502.84 and entered judgment. The Court later denied Sanai’s motions to
vacate judgment and for new trial. Sanai appealed these decisions, but the appeal
was dismissed. On November 21, 2022, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur. 
 
 
 
Sanai filed and served a notice of
his intent to file a motion for a new trial and to vacate the judgment in favor
of Heritage. Sanai served a memorandum in support of the motion, but failed
to file the memorandum with the Court until September 6, 2023. 
 
 
 
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A motion for new trial is a
creature of statute; . . .” (Neal
v. Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.)
A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and 659. Under Section
657, a motion for new trial may be granted if there is any:
 
[¶] 1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. [¶] 2.
Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been
induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any
question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of
chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the
jurors. [¶] 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded against. [¶] 4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party
making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered and produced at the trial. [¶] 5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
[¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision,
or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law, occurring
at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) 

 
When ruling on an application for a
new trial, the court sits as an independent trier of fact. (Lane v. Hughes Aircraft Co.
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 405, 412.) The court, therefore, has broad discretion to
order new trials, limited only by the obligation to state its reasons for
granting a new trial and the existence of substantial evidence in the record to
support those reasons. (Ibid.)
In assessing the need for a new trial, the court must rely on its view of the
overall record, taking into account such factors, among others, as the nature
and seriousness of the alleged misconduct, the general atmosphere, including
the judge’s control, of the trial, the likelihood of prejudicing the jury, and
the efficacy of objection or admonition under all the circumstances. (Dominguez v. Pantalone (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 201, 211.)
 
A new trial motion is not strictly
limited to trials. For instance, a new trial motion is available to challenge a
summary judgment. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 858.) When a new trial is granted in such a case,
the new trial motion is in the nature of a motion for reconsideration (CCP § 1008) and subject to the same
requirements (Passavanti v. Williams (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1602, 1606.)
 
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 
The party intending to move for a
new trial must file with the clerk and serve upon each adverse party a notice
of his intention to move for a new trial, designating the grounds upon which
the motion will be made and whether the same will be made upon affidavits or
the minutes of the court or both, either (1) “after a decision is rendered and
before the entry of judgment”; (2) “within 15 days of the date of mailing
notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court . . . , or service upon
him or her by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180
days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest”; or (3) if another
party files the first motion for new trial, “each other party shall have 15
days after the service of that notice upon him or her to file and serve a
notice of intention to move for a new trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 659.) These
time limits are jurisdictional and cannot extended or waived by stipulation nor
court order. (Marriage of Herr
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1469 [while trial judge characterized order as one
“granting reconsideration,” ruling effectively granted new trial and was
untimely].)
 
A non-prevailing party may make
a motion to reconsider and enter a different order under the following
conditions: (1) brought before the same judge that made the order sought to be
reconsidered; (2) made within 10 days after service upon the party of the
notice of entry of the order (extended under Code of Civil Procedure § 1013 for
type of service); (3) based on new or different facts, circumstances or law
than those before the court at the time of the original ruling; (4) supported
by a declaration stating the previous order, by which judge it was made, and
the new or different facts, circumstances or law claimed to exist; and (5) the
motion must be made and decided before entry of judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008.) 
 
The legislature intended to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1500 [misinterpretation of the law is not a new or different
matter].)  Thus, “[t]o be entitled to reconsideration, a party
should show that (1) evidence of new or different facts exist, and (2) the
party has a satisfactory explanation for failing to produce such evidence at an
earlier time.” (Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)
The moving party must demonstrate that such newly discovered evidence could not, with
reasonable diligence, have previously discovered and produced. (Wilcox v.
Ford (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1170.)
 
Analysis
 

Sanai moves for a new trial and to
vacate the judgment and order of the Court entered on July 21, 2023. The
grounds notified for a new trial were, following the statutory numbering, in
relevant part as follows: 
 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings
of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of
discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. 
3. Accident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. 
4. Newly discovered evidence,
material for the party making the application, which he could not, with
reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
6. Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law. 
7. Error in law, occurring at the
trial and excepted to by the party making the application.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §657.)


Mr. Sanai first argues that the
Court improperly granted an underlying arbitration award motion. The Court has
already denied this basis for a new trial motion, and the issue was fully
litigated. The Court will not waste time relitigating this issue. The Court
also properly granted Defendant Heritage’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
for the reasons the Court provided. Plaintiff does not cite any new or
different law or facts that could change any portion of the ruling. 
 
Sanai also argues that the order
lacks jurisdiction but reserves this argument for an anticipated motion to
vacate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473(d).
 
Accordingly, the motion for new trial and to
vacate the judgment and order of the Court entered on July 21, 2023, is DENIED.