  Case Number:  22STCV04700    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
CLAUDIA
  MENDOZA, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV04700




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TORRANCE
  MEMORIAL MEDICAL CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 3,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Claudia Mendoza and Salvador Mendoza Maldonado
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Consolidate
Related Actions
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The cases are deemed related.  Case No. 22STCV04700 is designated the lead
case.  All documents filed in the
consolidated case must include the caption and case number of the lead case,
followed by the case numbers of all of the other consolidated cases.  All hearing dates in cases other than the
lead case are vacated.
BACKGROUND
            22STCV04700 (Dept. M)
In 22STCV04700, on February 7, 2022,
plaintiffs Claudia Mendoza Maldonado and Salvador Mendoza Maldonado filed a
complaint against defendants Torrance Memorial Medical Center, Torrance
Memorial Physicians Network, Torrance Radiology Medical Group, Ricardo Huete,
M.D. and Albert Grabb, M.D. for medical negligence.
            23TRCV04298 (Dept. B)
In 23TRCV04298, on December 27,
2023, plaintiff Cataleya Mendoza, a minor by and through her GAL Claudia
Maldonado filed a complaint against the same defendants for medical malpractice.

On August 21, 2024, plaintiffs
submitted a notice of related case.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP §1048 states:  “When actions involving a common question of
law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial
of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”
CCP §1049 states:  “An action is deemed to be pending from the
time of its commencement until its final determination upon appeal, or until
the time for appeal has passed, unless the judgment is sooner satisfied.”
Under California Rules of Court
Rule 3.350(a)(1), a notice of motion to consolidate must:     (A) List all named parties in each case,
the names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective
attorneys of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.  (2)
The motion to consolidate:  (A) Is deemed
a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; (B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C)
Must have a proof of service filed as part of the motion.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs Claudia Mendoza and
Salvador Mendoza Maldonado request that the Court consolidate the herein case with
case 23TRCV04298.  
The Court notes that plaintiffs
filed a notice of related case on August 21, 2024.
The Court deems the cases related.  
            As to consolidating the two cases,
the actions involve common questions of law and fact because they arise out of
medical treatment that Claudia received from defendants during and after her
pregnancy with Cataleya from June 2020 through February 2021.  As plaintiffs explain, the injuries alleged
in each case are based on Dr. Huete’s negligent prescription of misoprostol to
Claudia while she was pregnant with Cataleya, and a repeated failure to
disclose the dangers of taking misoprostol while pregnant and Dr. Gabb’s
negligent interpretation and conclusions of the ultrasound in July 2020.  Plaintiffs allege in both cases that the
alleged acts/omissions led to Cataleya’s physical and cognitive injuries.  The cases involve the same defendants and witnesses.  Consolidation will serve judicial economy and
avoid the risk of inconsistent verdicts concerning the issue of liability. 
            The Court finds that plaintiffs
complied with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350.
            The motion is GRANTED. 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.  Case Nos. 22STCV04700 and 23TRCV04298 are
deemed related.  Case No. 22STCV04700 is
designated the lead case.  All documents
filed in the consolidated case must include the caption and case number of the
lead case, followed by the case numbers of all of the other consolidated cases.  All hearing dates in cases other than the
lead case are vacated.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.