 Case Number:  24TRCV01748    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
EUNICE
  VIRGEN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01748




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CHANCE
  BERMAN, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 3, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Chance Berman
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Eunice Virgen
Demurrer
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action in the complaint
as against defendant Chance Berman.
BACKGROUND
            On May 22, 2024, plaintiff Eunice
Virgen filed a complaint against Chance Berman, American Skating Entertainment
Centers, LLC, and Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. for (1) negligence and (2)
negligence – premises liability.
            On July 16, 2024, plaintiff filed an
amendment designating L.A. Ice Venture Company, LLC as Doe 1.
            On July 18, 2024, plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Anschutz Entertainment Group.
            On July 26, 2024, plaintiff filed an
amendment designating Polar Ice Ventures LLC as Doe 2.
            On August 14, 2024, plaintiff filed
an amendment designating Polar Ice Enterprises California, LLC as Doe 3.
            On September 12, 2024, the Court
granted defendant Chance Berman’s motion for a protective order.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Chance Berman demurs to
the first and second causes of action in the complaint on the grounds that they
fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action as to Berman as
an individual and are uncertain. 
The complaint alleges that on April
27, 2024, plaintiff was on the premises of Toyota Sports Performance
Center.  At that place and time, the
rubber flooring near the exit of the ice rink located at the subject premises
was damaged, and a section of it had been removed, leaving a hole.  Defendants had placed a loose piece of rubber
flooring over the hole.  This action was
negligent, unreasonable, ineffective, and insufficient and created an
unreasonable risk of harm on the floor of the premises.  While attempting to exit the ice rink at the
premises in a reasonable and foreseeable manner, plaintiff slipped and fell on
the loose piece of rubber flooring and as a result has suffered serious
damages.
The complaint alleges that
defendant Chance Berman, along with the other defendants, own, control, and
operate the subject premises.  Defendant
Berman is also alleged to be the general manager of the Toyota Sports Performance
Center, which is the location of the subject premises, and an employee of the
other defendants.
“In order to state a cause of
action for negligence, plaintiff must state facts showing that defendant had a
duty to plaintiff, that the duty was breached by negligent conduct, and that
the breach was the cause of damages to the plaintiff.”  Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp.
(1989) 215 Cal. App 3d 1611, 1619.   The
elements of premises liability mirror those for negligence:  a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury. Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158.  “Premises liability
is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to
control and manage the premises; accordingly, mere possession with its
attendant right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for
the imposition of an affirmative duty to act.” 
Id. (citations omitted).  “Those
who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise
ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an
unreasonable risk of harm.”  Annocki
v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal. App. 4th 32, 37.
Under Civil Code §2343:  “One who assumes to act as an agent is
responsible to third persons as a principal for his acts in the course of his
agency, in any of the following cases, and in no others:  . . . . 3. 
When his acts are wrongful in their nature.”
Defendant Berman argues that there
is no allegation that he, as an individual, committed any actions outside the
course and scope of his employment that would give rise to his personal
liability as an individual.  Defendant
contends that there are no allegations that he breached a duty of care, which
caused plaintiff’s injuries, including any allegations that he personally
created the risk of harm at issue or committed some wrongdoing outside of his
employment duties.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient to allege duty and that defendant Berman
created the dangerous condition. 
Plaintiff also contends that “[a]n agent or employee is always liable
for his own torts, whether his employer is liable or not,” citing to Fleet
v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1411-1412
(which cites to Civil Code §2343).
            In reply, defendant reiterates his
arguments.
            The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that the allegations are
insufficient as to any individual liability against defendant Berman under the
first and second causes of action.  The
allegations are insufficient that Berman, in his individual capacity, had a
duty to plaintiff.  As alleged, Berman is
being sued in his capacity as general manager and as an employee.  Further, the allegations also do not show
Berman’s alleged wrongful conduct.
            The demurrer is thus SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action in the complaint
as to defendant Chance Berman.
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.