 Case Number:  23TRCV00029    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CHRISTY
  ANDREWS, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00029




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULINGS
(1)
  Torrance Motion
(2)  Lomita Motion




 
CITY
  OF LOMITA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 3, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                     Defendant City of Torrance
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Christy Andrews
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication is
GRANTED as to the second, third, and fourth causes of action (Issues 4, 5, 6)
and DENIED as to the first cause of action (Issues 1, 2, 3).
BACKGROUND
On January 4, 2023, plaintiff
Christy Andrews filed a complaint against City of Lomita for (1) premises
liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835 and (2) negligence of a public entity
under Gov. Code §815.2.  Plaintiff
alleges that on January 19, 2021, plaintiff was walking down the side of the
road when she was struck by a tree which fell onto plaintiff at or near Walnut
Street and 241st Street, Lomita, which caused plaintiff to sustain
serious physical injuries.
On January 18, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC against City of Lomita, City of Torrance (as Doe 1), and West Coast
Arborists (as Doe 2) for (1) premises liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835,
(2) negligence of a public entity under Gov. Code §815.2, (3) negligence, and
(4) premises liability.
On March 1, 2023, City of Torrance
filed a cross-complaint against City of Lomita.
On March 14, 2023, West Coast
Arborists filed a cross-complaint against Roes.
On February 20, 2024, plaintiff
filed a request for dismissal as to West Coast Arborists.
            Trial was continued from October 30,
2024 to February 24, 2025.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467; CCP §437c(c).
DISCUSSION
Defendant
City of Torrance requests summary judgment as to each of the causes of action
against it on the ground that there is no triable issue of material fact and as
a matter of law it prevails.
Alternatively,
Torrance requests summary adjudication as follows:
Issue No.
1:  The first cause of action fails as a
matter of law because plaintiff cannot establish a dangerous condition of
public property.
Issue No.
2:  The first cause of action fails as a
matter of law because plaintiff cannot show that City of Torrance’s employees’
negligence or wrongful conduct created the dangerous condition.
Issue No.
3:  The first cause of action fails as a
matter of law because plaintiff cannot show City of Torrance had actual or
constructive notice of any alleged dangerous condition.
Issue No.
4:  The second cause of action fails as a
matter of law because City of Torrance cannot be held vicariously liable for
actions for which its employees have immunity under Gov. Code §840.
Issue No.
5:  The third cause of action fails as a
matter of law because it is not permitted under the Gov. Claims Act.
Issue No.
6:  The fourth cause of action fails as a
matter of law because it is not permitted under the Gov. Claims Act.
The FAC alleges that on January 19,
2021, plaintiff was walking down the side of the road when she was struck by a
tree which fell onto plaintiff at or near Walnut Street and 241st
Street, Lomita, which caused plaintiff to sustain serious physical injuries.
The parties do not dispute the
following facts:  Prior to the incident,
plaintiff either walked or drove past the subject tree nearly every day as the
tree was and/or is located at or near her place of residence.  DUMF 2. 
Plaintiff submitted a Claim for Damages to City of Torrance on March 29,
2021.  Defendant’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Facts (“DUMF”) 3.  On April
14, 2021, Torrance deposited in the mail a Notice of Rejection of plaintiff’s
claim.  DUMF 4.  On January 18, 2023, plaintiff filed her FAC,
which named Torrance as a defendant for the first time.  DUMF 5. 
The City of Torrance contains approximately 37,000 trees that are owned
by Torrance and maintained by the Public Works Department, Streetscape
Division.  DUMF 6.  Torrance’s tree inventory system, Arbor
Access, has records for all maintenance, including trimming and removal,
performed on city owned trees, including the subject tree, whether performed by
the Public Works Department or Torrance’s third-party vendors.  DUMF 7. 
The Arbor Access records show that prior to the incident, grid trimming
was performed on the subject tree on November 3, 2009, October 31, 2011,
February 13, 2013, and November 28, 2016. 
DUMF 8.  Grid trimming refers to
regular maintenance performed by Torrance’s landscape employees on city owned
and maintained trees, which at that time, occurred in a two-to-six year
cycle.  DUMF 9.  Grid trimming includes a visual inspection of
the tree to identify potential health and safety issues with the tree and to
address them by trimming or removal. 
DUMF 10.  Based on Torrance’s
policies, procedures, and practices with respect to tree maintenance, if the
visual inspection identifies potential issues affecting the health or safety of
the tree, Torrance’s tree trimmers will address the issue by trimming, removal,
or pesticides.  DUMF 11.  If the visual inspection identifies potential
issues that cannot be adequately addressed by Torrance’s tree trimmers, the
trimmers are trained to request an inspection and assessment by a supervisor,
which includes a visual and physical inspection as well as assessments.  DUMF 12. 
If a supervisor inspection is requested, and further action is
necessary, the action take is recorded in Arbor Access.  DUMF 13. 
There is no record in Arbor Access of any inspection or assessment by a
supervisor, tree trimming aside from “grid trimming,” nor is there any record
in Arbor Access of limbs or branches being removed, falling or breaking off
from the subject tree prior to the incident. 
DUMF 14.  Luis Ochoa, Torrance’s
Landscape Manager/City Arborist, who was the supervisor for the area where the
subject tree was located, was not requested to conduct an inspection or
assessment of the subject tree prior to or at or around the time of the
incident.  DUMF 15.
The parties also do not dispute
that the length of the maintenance cycle takes into account a number of
factors, including the number of city-owned trees, budget issues, staffing
issues, weather events, and unexpected events. 
DUMF 16.  Since 1998, Torrance has
maintained a software system that enters and tracks concerns reported by
citizens to Torrance or Torrance’s employees, which is currently known as
Accela.  DUMF 17.  There are no complaints, concerns, or reports
involving the subject tree in Accela prior to the incident.  DUMF 18. 
Torrance maintains a database called CXP of all claims made against
Torrance since July 1, 1989.  DUMF 19.  There are no claims involving the subject
tree in CXP prior to the incident.  DUMF
20.  Although the subject tree was on
Lomita property, Lomita has no record of any issues, concerns, or complaints,
requests for work, or other maintenance regarding or related to the subject
tree prior to the incident.  DUMF 21.
The parties also do not dispute
that on the day of the incident, Lomita removed the fallen limb, and the next
day, removed the subject tree without notifying Torrance.  DUMF 22. 
Lomita did not evaluate the subject tree to determine what caused the
limb to fail.  DUMF 23.  Torrance did not have the opportunity to
evaluate the tree to determine its health and condition and what caused the
limb to fail.  DUMF 24.  
 
            Evidentiary
objections
Torrance’s objections are ruled on
as follows:  as to Nicole Lahmani decl.,
OVERRULED as to Nos. 1-2; as to Lisa Smith decl., OVERRULED as to Nos. 1-14.
 
Statute
of limitations
Defendant
argues that plaintiff’s claims are barred by the six-month statute of
limitations under Gov. Code §945.6 because she did not timely filed a complaint
against Torrance.  Defendant asserts that
the Notice of Rejection was sent on April 14, 2021, which commenced the
six-month statute of limitations to file a complaint.  Defendant contends that plaintiff was
required to file suit against Torrance on October 14, 2021, but that she filed
it on January 18, 2023.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that plaintiff’s claims against Torrance were
timely filed because Torrance made a significant misrepresentation of a
material fact that was not discovered until after the six months had lapsed.  Plaintiff points to the Notice of Rejection
and accompanying letter from the liability claims administrator, which stated
that the liability investigation “determined that the location of this incident
is outside [Torrance’s] jurisdiction” but did not mention any other involvement
that Torrance had with regard to the subject tree, including that the tree was
within Torrance’s tree inventory and corresponding maintenance and control over
the subject tree.  The rejection notice
also advised that there would be “serious consequences associated with suing
the wrong public entities.”  Thus,
plaintiff argues, the doctrine of equitable tolling applies.  Plaintiff also argue that Torrance is
estopped from asserting the statute of limitations as a defense because
plaintiff relied on Torrance’s misrepresentation of material fact.
In the
reply, Torrance argues that equitable tolling does not apply while waiting for
Lomita to act on her claim.  As to
estoppel, Torrance argues that it does not apply because it did not make a
“material misrepresentation” by pointing a finger at Lomita, and that the
notice of rejection does not make any such statements.  Defendant asserts that given the sparse
information in plaintiff’s claim, there were no facts that would give rise to
any alleged duty by Torrance to inform plaintiff that it maintained the subject
tree and that it did not make a “material misrepresentation.”  Defendant contends that it did not know the
actual location of the subject tree or the type of tree involved and that there
were surrounding trees on the Torrance and Lomita sides of Walnut Street.  Defendant also argues that plaintiff was not
ignorant of the facts.  Defendant also
objects to arborist Smith’s declaration.
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that
plaintiff has raised triable issues as to the application of equitable tolling
and estoppel so as not to bar plaintiff’s complaint against Torrance.  “As will appear . . . occasionally and in
special situations, the foregoing statutory procedure [Gov. Code §945.6] does
not preclude application of the equitable tolling doctrine, the purpose of
which is to soften the harsh impact of technical rules which might otherwise
prevent a good faith litigant from having a day in court.”  Addison v. State of California (1978)
21 Cal. 3d 313, 316.  “As with other
general equitable principles, application of the equitable tolling doctrine
requires a balancing of the injustice to the plaintiff occasioned by the bar of
his claim against the effect upon the important public interest or policy
expressed by the Tort Claims Act limitations statute.”  Id. at 321.  “[T]he requirements for equitable tolling are
that defendant must receive timely notice of the claims, defendant must suffer
no prejudice, and plaintiff must act reasonably and in good faith.”  Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th
402, 409.  Here, plaintiff presents
evidence that Torrance received timely notice of plaintiff’s claims.  Defendant has not shown that it suffered any
prejudice.  Further, plaintiff acted
reasonably and in good faith in suing Lomita and not Torrance in reliance upon
the April 14, 2021 letter and notice of rejection stating that “the location of
this incident is outside the City’s jurisdiction.”  
Plaintiff
also raises a triable issue as to whether defendant is estopped from asserting
the statute of limitations.  “In order to
assert equitable estoppel, the following four elements must be present:  (1) the party to be estopped must be apprised
of the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct be acted on, or must so act
that the party asserting estoppel had a right to believe it was so intended;
(3) the party asserting estoppel must be ignorant of the true state of facts;
and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.”  Sofranek v. County of Merced (2007)
146 Cal. App. 4th 1238, 1250 (citations omitted).  Plaintiff has shown that it may be capable of
meeting all the elements.  Defendant was
apprised timely of the facts of plaintiff’s claims and denied that the tree was
within Torrance’s boundaries but failed to disclose that the tree was in its
inventory and that it had done maintenance on it for several years.  Defendant intended that plaintiff act on
these representations in advising plaintiff not to sue defendant.  Plaintiff was ignorant of the true facts that
the tree was in Torrance’s inventory and that Torrance had control of it and
was maintaining it.  Plaintiff relied
upon Torrance’s conduct to her injury, meaning plaintiff did not file the
complaint against Torrance within six months of the notice of rejection.
Thus,
there is a triable issue as to whether the complaint is barred.
 
First cause
of action for premises liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835  
Government
Code §835 “sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity is
liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property.”  Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129.  
A public
entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if:
1) the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury;¿2) the
dangerous condition caused the injury;¿3) the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred; and 4)
either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public
entity within the scope of his employment created the condition, or the entity
had actual or constructive notice of the condition in time to have taken
measures to protect against it.  Gov.
Code § 835.  
“‘Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” 
Gov. Code § 830(a).
As to
notice, Gov. Code §835.2 states:   “(a) A
public entity had actual notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of
subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual knowledge of the existence of
the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.  (b)  A
public entity had constructive notice of a dangerous condition within the
meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only if the plaintiff establishes
that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an
obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have
discovered the condition and its dangerous character.  On the issue of due care, admissible evidence
includes but is not limited to evidence as to: 

(1)
Whether the existence of the condition and its dangerous character would have
been discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate
(considering the practicability and cost of inspection weighed against the
likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which failure to inspect
would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the property was safe for
the use or uses for which the public entity used or intended others to use the
public property and for uses that the public entity actually knew others were
making of the public property or adjacent property.
(2)
Whether the public entity maintained and operated such an inspection system
with due care and did not discover the condition.”
 
Defendant
Torrance argues that plaintiff cannot establish the statutory elements
necessary to show a dangerous condition of public property.  Defendant asserts that plaintiff has failed
to identify any condition of the subject tree that constitutes a dangerous
condition, and that there is no evidence that the subject tree was damaged,
deteriorated, or defective to such a degree that it is potentially dangerous
and posed a substantial risk of injury. 
Defendant argues that the mere fact that the limb fell is not
sufficient.  As is undisputed, defendant
asserts, the subject tree no longer exists as Lomita removed it the day after
the incident and no evaluation of the subject tree was conducted to determine
what condition it was in or what caused the limb to fail.  Defendant also argues that plaintiff, who
lived nearby and passed the subject tree frequently, never noticed anything
about the subject tree to indicate that it was a dangerous condition.  Defendant also points out the absence of any
history of prior incidents and reports of issues, concerns, or complaints
regarding the subject tree. 
Defendant
further argues that there is no evidence that the dangerous condition was
created by any negligent or wrongful act of Torrance’s employees, including
that Torrance planted the tree.  Further,
defendant asserts, in the four years since Torrance last serviced the subject
tree, the condition of the tree changed owing to normal growth, the weather,
the environment, and the surrounding conditions that were not created by
Torrance and over which Torrance had no control.
Defendant
also argues that Torrance did not have actual notice of a dangerous condition
because there is no evidence that a Torrance employee saw the particular limb
on the subject tree and recognized it as a potential hazard to
pedestrians.  Defendant also argues that
Torrance did not have constructive notice because plaintiff has not identified
how long that the purported dangerous condition existed and that prior to the
incident, there were no reports of issues, concerns, or complaints related to
the subject tree; no claims involving the subject tree; no record of any prior
broken or fallen branches or limbs; and no potential issues pertaining to the
health and safety of the subject tree.  
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that the subject tree was a dangerous condition
that caused plaintiff’s injuries because the tree had a decayed limb and was
structurally unstable based on the extreme imbalance in its weight and the tree
was removed in its entirety because it was hazardous to the public.  Plaintiff’s expert Lisa Smith states that the
tree was visibly rotting, decayed, and in disrepair and would have been easily
discoverable with a simple inspection. 
Further, whether plaintiff was aware of the subject tree’s dangerous
condition or that she was familiar with the area or that she passed it numerous
times is irrelevant.  Smith also states
that the tree was visibly deteriorated and should have been inspected on a more
frequent basis.
Plaintiff
also argues that the dangerous condition was created by a Torrance employee’s
negligence because the maintenance cycle of the subject tree was not kept, and
the subject tree’s health deteriorated during this time.  Plaintiff asserts that Smith opined that even
based on a photograph of the tree from April 2018, the trunk was decayed, and
the weight imbalance of the tree’s signature was obvious in August 2017.
Plaintiff
further argues that Torrance had actual and/or constructive notice.  Plaintiff contends that at least one of the
branches of the subject tree broke off sometime between October 2014 and August
2017.  Had the broken limb occurred prior
to the November 28, 2016 grid trimming, Torrance had actual knowledge of the
questionable health.  If it occurred
after, Torrance would have removed the branch and thus had notice.  At the very least, plaintiff argues, Torrance
had constructive notice because Torrance failed to conduct any inspection of
the subject tree for about 51 months, inconsistent with its own inspection
cycle and policy.  Had Torrance exercised
due care, Torrance would have discovered the health and structural issue of the
tree with more than sufficient time to remedy the issue before the date of the
incident.  Plaintiff also asserts that
the lack of prior incidents is irrelevant because a tree is inherently changing
in nature. 
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that
defendant Torrance has not met its burden to show that plaintiff cannot
establish the elements for dangerous condition of public property as against
Torrance, namely, with respect to whether the tree was in a dangerous condition
and whether Torrance had actual or constructive notice.  Plaintiff has presented substantial evidence
to raise a triable issue as to whether the tree was in a dangerous condition
and whether the inspection system was adequate and whether Torrance operated
the inspection system with due care and whether it should have discovered any
defects with the tree.  The evidence
indicates that four years had passed since the prior grid trimming.
 
Second
cause of action for negligence under Gov. Code §815.2
Gov. Code
§815.2 states:  “(a) A public entity is
liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the
public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would,
apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that
employee or his personal representative.” 
Under Gov. Code §815.2, the plaintiff must establish that an employee of
the public entity defendants “engaged in an act or omission giving rise to that
employees tort liability.”  Koussaya
v. City of Stockton (2020) 54 Cal. App. 5th 909, 944.  
“[P]ublic
entity liability for property defects is not governed by the general rule of
vicarious liability provided in section 815.2, but rather by the provisions in
sections 830 to 835.4 of the Government Code. 
A public employee is not liable for injuries caused by a condition of
public property where such condition exists because of any act or omission of
such employee within the scope of his employment.  (Gov. Code §840).”  Longfellow v. County of San Luis Obispo
(1983) 144 Cal. App. 3d 379, 383 (citing to Van Kempen v. Hayward Area Park
Recreation and Park District (1972) 23 Cal. App. 3d 822).
Defendant
argues that where the theory of a plaintiff’s case is the maintenance of a
dangerous condition, liability is pursuant to Gov. Code §830, et seq. and
cannot be based on vicarious negligence under Gov. Code §815.2.  Van Kempen, supra, at 825.  Defendant further asserts that it cannot be
liable for actions by its employees for which they have immunity pursuant to
Gov. Code §840.
In
opposition, plaintiff argues that Torrance is liable for plaintiff’s injuries
under Gov. Code §815.2 because the cause of action is based on the negligence
of Torrance’s employees who were acting within the scope of their
employment.  
The Court
rules as follows:  The
Court finds that Torrance has met its burden of showing that plaintiff cannot
establish the elements under Gov. Code §815.2 because the sole cause of action
against a public entity for dangerous condition of public property is under
Gov. Code §830, et seq.  See Van
Kempen and Longfellow, supra. 
Public entity liability for property defects is not governed by the
general rule of vicarious liability provided in Gov. Code §815.2

 
Third
cause of action for negligence
The Court
notes that this cause of action is directed against West Coast Arborists, Inc. (and
Does 3 through 20) only, and not against the public entity defendants.
The Court
rules as follows:  This cause of action
is not based on statute.  Thus, defendant
has met its burden that plaintiff cannot establish the elements for premises
liability as against defendant.  The law
is clear.  Gov. Code §815 provides that “[e]xcept
as otherwise provided by statute . . . [a] public entity is not liable for an
injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public
entity or a public employee or any other person.”  “[D]irect tort liability of public entities
must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least
creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of
Civil Code section 1714.  Otherwise, the
general rule of immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the
routine application of general tort principles.”  Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection
Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183. 
Since the duty of a governmental agency can only be created by statute
or enactment, the statute or enactment claimed to establish the duty must at
the very least be identified.  Searcy
v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal. App. 3d 792, 802.  “Thus, in California, ‘all government tort
liability must be based on statute.’”  Hoff
v. Vacaville Unified School District (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932 (citation
omitted).
 
Fourth
cause of action for premises liability
This
cause of action is directed against West Coast Arborists, Inc. (and Does 3
through 20) only, and not against the public entity defendants.
See under
the third cause of action. 
The Court
rules as follows:  This cause of action
is not based on statute.  Thus, defendant
has met its burden that plaintiff cannot establish the elements for premises
liability as against defendant.
Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is DENIED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is DENIED as to the first cause of
action and GRANTED as to the second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
 
ORDER
The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to the second, third, and fourth causes of action (Issues 4, 5,
6) and DENIED as to the first cause of action (Issues 1, 2, 3).
            Defendant Torrance is ordered to
give notice of ruling.
 
 
___________________________________________
 
Hearing
Date:                          October 3, 2024
Moving
Parties:                     Defendant City of Lomita
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Christy Andrews
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in
the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT
in light of the ruling on the motion for summary judgment.
BACKGROUND
On January
4, 2023, plaintiff Christy Andrews filed a complaint against City of Lomita for
(1) premises liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835 and (2) negligence of a
public entity under Gov. Code §815.2. 
Plaintiff alleges that on January 19, 2021, plaintiff was walking down
the side of the road when she was struck by a tree which fell onto plaintiff at
or near Walnut Street and 241st Street, Lomita, which caused
plaintiff to sustain serious physical injuries.
On
January 18, 2023, plaintiff filed a FAC against City of Lomita, City of
Torrance (as Doe 1), and West Coast Arborists (as Doe 2) for (1) premises
liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835, (2) negligence of a public entity
under Gov. Code §815.2, (3) negligence, and (4) premises liability.
On March
1, 2023, City of Torrance filed a cross-complaint against City of Lomita.
On March
14, 2023, West Coast Arborists filed a cross-complaint against Roes.
On
February 20, 2024, plaintiff filed a request for dismissal as to West Coast
Arborists.
            Trial was continued from October 30,
2024 to February 24, 2025.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467; CCP §437c(c).
DISCUSSION
Defendant
City of Lomita requests summary judgment as to each of the causes of action
against it on the ground that there is no triable issue of material fact and as
a matter of law it prevails.  The Court
notes that only the first and second causes of action are directed against the
public entities, which includes Lomita.  
Alternatively,
Lomita requests summary adjudication as follows:
Issue No.
1:  There are no triable issues of
material fact regarding the third and 
fourth
causes of action as these causes of action cannot be brought against a public
entity as they are not provided for under the California Tort Claims Act.
Issue No.
2:  There are no triable issues of
material fact regarding the first and second causes of action as plaintiff
cannot establish essential elements necessary to prove plaintiff’s claims.
Issue No.
3:  Lomita is entitled to summary
judgment as plaintiff cannot establish that a Lomita employee’s negligence
created the allegedly dangerous condition. 
Issue No.
4:  There are no triable issues of
material fact regarding plaintiff’s allegation that the tree constituted a
dangerous condition of public property because Lomita did not have actual or
constructive notice of the allegedly dangerous condition.
Issue No.
5:  There are no triable issues of
material fact regarding plaintiff’s allegation 
that the
tree constituted a dangerous condition of public property because plaintiff’s
injuries were not proximately caused by a physical condition of the property,
only the conduct of plaintiff. 
Issue No.
6:  There are no triable issues of
material fact regarding plaintiff’s allegation that the tree constituted a
dangerous condition of public property because Lomita did not control or
possess the allegedly dangerous condition.
Issue No.
7:  Summary judgment is proper as Lomita
is entitled to immunity for its reasonable actions under Government Code §835.
The FAC
alleges that on January 19, 2021, plaintiff was walking down the side of the
road when she was struck by a tree which fell onto plaintiff at or near Walnut
Street and 241st Street, Lomita, which caused plaintiff to sustain
serious physical injuries.
The
parties do not dispute the following facts: 
on January 19, 2021, plaintiff was walking to her vehicle to retrieve a
vin number to provide that information to a locksmith.  Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Facts (“DUMF”) 1.  Approximately three
minutes before the incident as plaintiff was walking on Walnut Street she heard
a crack from the subject tree.  DUMF
2.  Plaintiff knew the crack came from
the subject tree because she was under the subject tree when she heard the
crack and there was nothing else around. 
DUMF 3.  After hearing the crack,
plaintiff proceeded to speed up because she did not like the sound.  DUMF 4. 
The subject incident then occurred as she was returning to her home
after getting the vin number from her vehicle. 
DUMF 5.  Plaintiff indicated that
at the time of the incident she was walking in the street because she had heard
the tree crack and believed the street would be a safer location than the
sidewalk.  DUMF 6.  Plaintiff was walking in the roadway of
Walnut Street when she claimed she was struck by a tree branch.  DUMF 8. 
At the time of the subject incident, the subject tree was included
within the City of Torrance’s tree inventory. 
DUMF 10.  The City of Torrance has
a duty to maintain trees that are within their tree inventory.  DUMF 11. 
The City of Torrance serviced and maintained the subject tree for at
least five years prior to the incident. 
DUMF 12.  The City of Torrance
provided service to the subject tree on November 3, 2009, October 31, 2011,
February 13, 2013, and November 28, 2016. 
DUMF 14.
The
parties also do not dispute that both City of Torrance and City of Lomita
contracted with West Coast Arborist for tree maintenance and service.  DUMF 18. 
West Coast Arborist confirmed that the subject tree was in City of
Torrance’s tree map and service area. 
DUMF 19. West Coast Arborist confirmed that the subject tree was not in
City of Lomita’s tree map or service area. 
DUMF 20.  West Coast Arborist
confirmed that if it had been aware of any issue with the subject tree they
would have advised City of Torrance and not City of Lomita.  DUMF 21. West Coast Arborist would have
invoiced City of Torrance for any work they performed to the subject tree.  DUMF 29. 
 It was not until after the
incident occurred that City of Lomita determined that the subject tree was
within the jurisdictional boundary of Lomita. 
DUMF 22.  Prior to the incident
(at least from 2008), no Lomita employees undertook any action with respect to
the subject tree.  DUMF 23.  Lomita does not have any complaints, requests
for work, or other maintenance records related to the subject tree.  DUMF 24. 
City of Torrance never provided any information about the subject tree
to Lomita.  DUMF 25.  Prior to the incident, Lomita did not plant, maintain,
control, or otherwise possess the subject tree as it was not with Lomita’s tree
inventory. DUMF 26.  In May 2023, the
City of Torrance formally notified Lomita in writing that they will no longer
maintain the subject tree.  DUMF 27.  Both City of Torrance and Lomita rely on
their tree maps and tree inventory to determine which trees they have a duty to
maintain.  DUMF 28.  See Hector Flores decl., Deborah Dixon decl.;
Ernesto Macias decl.
            Evidentiary objections
Lomita’s
objections are ruled on as follows: 
Overruled as to Nos. 1-11 as to Nicole Lahmani decl. and Nos. 1-14 as to
Lisa Smith decl. 
 
First cause
of action for premises liability under Gov. Code §§830 and 835  
Government
Code §835 “sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity is
liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property.”  Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129.  
A public
entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if:
1) the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury;¿2) the
dangerous condition caused the injury;¿3) the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred; and 4)
either a negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public
entity within the scope of his employment created the condition, or the entity
had actual or constructive notice of the condition in time to have taken
measures to protect against it.  Gov.
Code § 835.  
“‘Dangerous
condition’ means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” 
Gov. Code § 830(a).
As to
notice, Gov. Code §835.2 states:   “(a) A
public entity had actual notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of
subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual knowledge of the existence of
the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.  (b)  A
public entity had constructive notice of a dangerous condition within the
meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only if the plaintiff establishes
that the condition had existed for such a period of time and was of such an obvious
nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have
discovered the condition and its dangerous character.  On the issue of due care, admissible evidence
includes but is not limited to evidence as to: 

(1)
Whether the existence of the condition and its dangerous character would have
been discovered by an inspection system that was reasonably adequate
(considering the practicability and cost of inspection weighed against the
likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which failure to inspect
would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the property was safe for
the use or uses for which the public entity used or intended others to use the
public property and for uses that the public entity actually knew others were
making of the public property or adjacent property.
(2)
Whether the public entity maintained and operated such an inspection system
with due care and did not discover the condition.”
 
Defendant
Lomita argues that the undisputed evidence shows that plaintiff cannot
establish that a Lomita employee’s negligence created the “dangerous condition”
because the subject tree was included in the City of Torrance’s tree inventory
(and not on Lomita’s tree map) and was maintained by Torrance (and not Lomita) prior
to the incident.
Defendant
also argues that plaintiff cannot establish that Lomita had actual or
constructive notice of the condition.  As
to actual notice, defendant asserts that the undisputed evidence shows that it
has no record of ever receiving any complaints, work orders, or citizen
requests concerning the subject tree and reiterates that the subject tree was
in City of Torrance’s tree inventory and maintained by Torrance.  Defendant asserts that Torrance did not
provide Lomita with any information as to the subject tree.  As to constructive notice, defendant contends
that plaintiff cannot show that the dangerous condition of the tree was
sufficiently obvious and that it existed for a sufficient amount of time.  Defendant points to the evidence showing that
Torrance performed maintenance on the subject tree in 2009, 2011, 2013, and
2016.  Defendant also cites to evidence
that Torrance maintains a system for logging complaints and did not find a
single complaint related to the subject tree. 
Defendant also argues that the evidence shows that the tree was not
within Lomita’s tree map and that Lomita understood that the tree was not their
property and did not inspect or maintain the subject tree as it was understood
to be under the control and possession of City of Torrance.
Defendant
further argues that the subject tree was not a dangerous condition that caused
plaintiff’s injuries, and that plaintiff has not identified any specific
physical defect.
Defendant
also argues that plaintiff’s injuries were not caused by the subject tree;
rather they were caused “by [plaintiff’s] own behavior” of choosing to walk, in
the middle of the street, still underneath the tree.
Moreover,
defendant argues, it did not control or possess the allegedly dangerous
condition.
In
opposition, plaintiff argue that the subject tree was a dangerous condition
that caused plaintiff’s injuries because the tree had a physical defect.  Plaintiff cites to Hector Flores’ deposition
where he testified that the tree was “structurally unsound” by looking at a
photo and that a tree may be diseased or damaged despite how the tree may seem
from the exterior.  Plaintiff also cites
to Nicole Lahmani decl.  Plaintiff
further argues that her injuries were caused by the dangerous condition and
that Lomita’s argument that her injuries were caused solely by her own behavior
because she was a pedestrian walking down the street is without merit and
unsupported by legal authority.
Plaintiff
also argues that Lomita had possession and control of the dangerous condition
because it was in Lomita’s jurisdictional boundary and thus, it owned the
subject tree.  Plaintiff contends that
whether Lomita and Torrance were mistaken about the ownership of the subject
tree is irrelevant.
Plaintiff
further argues that the dangerous condition was created by a Lomita employee’s
negligence “when it failed to realize that the Subject Tree was within the
jurisdictional boundary of Lomita and subsequently failed to add the Subject
Tree to Lomita’s tree inventory for maintenance.”  Plaintiff also contends that Lomita employees
created the dangerous condition when they ignored the apparent decay and
structural issue of the subject tree.
Plaintiff
further argues that Lomita had actual and/or constructive notice.  Plaintiff asserts that at least one Lomita
employee, Hector Flores, drives by the area “all the time.”  Plaintiff contends that the subject tree’s
health was captured periodically via Google Earth, to which plaintiff’s expert
arborist opined that as early as October 2014, a photo shows the subject limb
with decay and another photo from 2017 showing a decaying trunk and broken
branches.  Plaintiff asserts that a photo
from April 2018 shows that the branch had been pruned poorly and a photo from
January 2021 shows the tree trunk with decay. 
See Lisa Smith decl.  As to
constructive notice, plaintiff contends that the decay in the trunk and
structural issue must have existed for several years, and Lomita’s employees
should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character “simply by
driving near” the subject tree.
Plaintiff
requests a continuance if the Court is inclined to grant the motion because
Hector Flores identified a couple other people that might be more responsive
and appropriate to certain categories.
In reply,
Lomita reiterates the undisputed evidence, including that Torrance assumed
control over the subject tree by servicing and maintaining the tree for at
least five years prior to the incident. 
It was not until after the accident that Lomita determined that the tree
was within Lomita’s jurisdictional boundary. 
Both Torrance and Lomita rely on their tree maps and tree inventory to
determine which trees they have a duty to maintain.  At the time of the incident, the tree was
included in Torrance’s tree inventory and Torrance had provided services
including grid trimming to the tree multiple times in the years prior.  Defendant also points out that Hector Flores
was not an employee of Lomita at the time of the incident.  Defendant further argues that plaintiff has
failed to create a triable issue of fact with regard to notice and asserts that
plaintiff misstates Flores’ testimony. 
Rather, Flores testified multiple times that “I don’t know what caused
this.  It could be a variety of things”
and was unable to determine from the photo whether the tree was in a dangerous
condition.  As for Lisa Smith’s
declaration, plaintiff objects to it because plaintiff has not authenticated
the Google images.  Defendant further
argues that plaintiff has not shown how Lomita’s actions were unreasonable in
failing to realize that the tree was within Lomita’s jurisdictional boundary
because the evidence shows that the subject tree had been controlled,
maintained, serviced, and held out as part of Torrance’s property.  Moreover, defendant contends, plaintiff
should not be allowed a continuance because plaintiff has had ample time to
conduct discovery.
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court find that
defendant Lomita has shown that plaintiff cannot establish the elements for
dangerous condition of public property as against Lomita, specifically, as to
whether a Lomita employee caused the defect and actual and constructive notice.  
Plaintiff
has failed to meet her burden of presenting substantial evidence to raise a
triable issue of material fact. 
Plaintiff’s claim of an employee’s negligence is based on Lomita not
realizing that the tree was within Lomita’s jurisdictional boundary and not
adding the tree to its inventory for maintenance.  This is not a situation where the tree was
completely ignored or not mapped.  The
subject tree was on another city’s inventory and Torrance had taken
responsibility for maintenance. 
Plaintiff
has not met her burden of providing substantial evidence to raise a triable
issue of material fact that defendant had either actual or constructive
notice.  As stated above, as to actual
notice, the undisputed facts show that Lomita was unaware that the subject tree
was within its boundaries until after the incident; the tree was not on
Lomita’s tree map; the tree was in Torrance’s inventory; Torrance conducted
maintenance on the tree; Lomita did not have any reports or complaints about
the tree; and neither Torrance nor West Coast Arborists notified Lomita about
the tree.  As Lomita’s Public Works
Superintendent, Hector Flores states in his declaration, “[a]s the subject tree
was not in Lomita’s tree map, Lomita would not have had any reason to believe
that Lomita was responsible for maintenance or service in relation to the
subject tree.”
As to
constructive notice, the tree was within Torrance’s inspection system and thus
Lomita did not have an inspection system for the tree at the time of the
incident.  Plaintiff has not shown that
the condition of the tree had existed for such a period of time and was of such
an obvious nature that Lomita should have discovered the condition and “its
dangerous character.”
 
Second
cause of action for negligence under Gov. Code §815.2
Gov. Code
§815.2 states:  “(a) A public entity is
liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee or his personal representative.” 
Under Gov. Code §815.2, the plaintiff must establish that an employee of
the public entity defendants “engaged in an act or omission giving rise to that
employees tort liability.”  Koussaya
v. City of Stockton (2020) 54 Cal. App. 5th 909, 944.  
“[P]ublic
entity liability for property defects is not governed by the general rule of
vicarious liability provided in section 815.2, but rather by the provisions in
sections 830 to 835.4 of the Government Code. 
A public employee is not liable for injuries caused by a condition of
public property where such condition exists because of any act or omission of
such employee within the scope of his employment.  (Gov. Code §840).”  Longfellow v. County of San Luis Obispo
(1983) 144 Cal. App. 3d 379, 383 (citing to Van Kempen v. Hayward Area Park
Recreation and Park District (1972) 23 Cal. App. 3d 822).
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court finds that
Lomita has met its burden of showing that plaintiff cannot establish the
elements under Gov. Code §815.2 because the sole cause of action against a
public entity for dangerous condition of public property is under Gov. Code
§830, et seq.  See Van Kempen and Longfellow,
supra.  Public entity liability for
property defects is not governed by the general rule of vicarious liability
provided in Gov. Code §815.2.
 
Third
cause of action for negligence
This
cause of action is directed against West Coast Arborists, Inc. (and Does 3
through 20) only, and not against the public entity defendants.
In the
opposition, plaintiff contends that the complaint alleges that Does 3 through
20 “were acting in the course and scope of agency, partnership, joint venture,
association, and/or employment” of all defendants, including Lomita.  Plaintiff argues that as such, plaintiff need
not establish that the claims are provided for under the Tort Claims Act.
The Court
rules as follows:  The Court disagrees,
and the law is clear.  Gov. Code §815
provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute . . . [a] public
entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or
omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.”  “[D]irect tort liability of public entities
must be based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least
creating some specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of
Civil Code section 1714.  Otherwise, the
general rule of immunity for public entities would be largely eroded by the
routine application of general tort principles.”  Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection
Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183. 
Since the duty of a governmental agency can only be created by statute
or enactment, the statute or enactment claimed to establish the duty must at
the very least be identified.  Searcy
v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal. App. 3d 792, 802.  “Thus, in California, ‘all government tort
liability must be based on statute.’”  Hoff
v. Vacaville Unified School District (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932 (citation
omitted).
This
cause of action is not based on statute. Thus, defendant has met its burden
that plaintiff cannot establish the elements for negligence as against
defendant.
  
Fourth
cause of action for premises liability
This
cause of action is directed against West Coast Arborists, Inc. (and Does 3
through 20) only, and not against the public entity defendants.
See under
the third cause of action. 
The Court
rules as follows:  This cause of action
is not based on statute. Thus, defendant has met its burden that plaintiff
cannot establish the elements for premises liability as against defendant.
Accordingly,
the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on
the motion for summary judgment.
 
ORDER
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. 
The motion for summary adjudication is MOOT in light of the ruling on
the motion for summary judgment.
            Defendant Lomita is ordered to give
notice of ruling.