 Case Number:  23PSCV01109    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Irwindale 4th Street Associates LLC’s Motion  to Strike Portions of the Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff James Rutherford   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendant Irwindale 4th Street Associates LLC’s Motion  to Strike Portions of the Complaint is GRANTED with  ten (10) days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND   This is a disability rights action. Plaintiff James  Rutherford is physically disabled and relies on mobility devices such as  wheelchairs to ambulate. Defendants Garden Grove Petroleum Services (Garden  Grove Petroleum) and Irwindale 4th Street Associates LLC (Irwindale 4th Street)  own property located in Irwindale upon which an O Poke & Greens is located.  On January 25, 2023, Rutherford visited O Poke & Greens for the purpose of  making a purchase and conducting disability access testing. Rutherford alleges  the parking spaces did not comply with ADA standards.   On April 14, 2023, Rutherford filed a complaint against Garden  Grove Petroleum, Irwindale 4th Street, and Does 1-10, alleging violation of the  Unruh Civil Rights Act (UCRA).   On  June 6, 2023, Rutherford dismissed Garden Grove Petroleum from this action.   On July 3, 2023, Irwindale 4th Street filed  the present motion. On August 14, the court continued a hearing on Irwindale  4th Street’s motion for parties to further meet and confer. On August 16,  Irwindale 4th Street’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with  Rutherford’s counsel. (Link Suppl. Decl., ¶ 3.)   A hearing on the motion to strike is set for September  25, 2023, along with a case management conference.   REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Irwindale 4th Street’s request for judicial  notice of the California State Legislature’s records is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c). Rutherford’s  request for judicial notice of the operative complaint in Thurston v.  Midvale Corp. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 634 (Exhibit 5) is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).    Rutherford’s request for judicial notice of other  trial court decisions is DENIED as they are neither precedent nor binding  authority for this court. (B.F. v. Superior Court (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th  621, 627, fn. 2.)   ANALYSIS  Irwindale 4th Street moves to strike portions  of Rutherford’s Complaint requesting injunctive relief on the grounds that Rutherford  is only entitled to preventive injunctive relief pursuant to Civil Code section  52. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Irwindale 4th  Street’s motion.   Legal Standard  Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own  motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike  out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the  laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face  of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to  take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)   An immaterial or irrelevant allegation  includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim  or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported  by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for  judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or  cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)   Discussion  In the request for injunctive relief at  issue, Rutherford seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction enjoining Irwindale  4th Street and others from further violating the ADA and Civil Code section 51.  (Complaint, prayer, ¶ 2.) Rutherford alleges Irwindale 4th Street and others  have violated the ADA and UCRA by failing to provide ADA-compliant parking  spaces and failing to remove architectural barriers to access. (Complaint, ¶  12-14.) Rutherford limits the request for injunctive relief to Civil Code  section 52 by disclaiming any relief pursuant to the Disabled Persons Act (DPA),  including Civil Code sections 54 and 55. (Complaint, prayer, ¶ 2.)   Pursuant to Civil Code section 52,  subdivision (c)(3), Rutherford may file a “[a] request for preventive relief,  including an application for a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining  order, or other order against the person or persons responsible for the  conduct, as the complainant deems necessary to ensure the full enjoyment of the  rights described in this section.” Irwindale 4th Street argues this “preventive  relief” is limited to injunctions that are prohibitive and claims Rutherford  cannot seek injunctive relief that would compel Irwindale 4th Street to take  affirmative action in remediating the alleged ADA violations.   Irwindale 4th Street notes there is no case  law interpreting the definition of preventive relief pursuant to Civil Code  section 52, subdivision (c)(3). Rutherford argues there is controlling  authority on this issue in the opinion of Thurston v. Midvale Corp. (2019)  39 Cal.App.5th 634 (Thurston).  However,  Thurston only dealt with whether a plaintiff had standing to seek  injunctive relief. (Id., at p. 651.)    In addition to not defining preventive  relief, the court in Thurston also recognized the appellant failed to  make sufficient argument and analyze the language or legislative intent of  Civil Code section 52. (Id., at p. 652.) Unlike the appellant in Thurston,  Irwindale 4th Street makes specific arguments regarding the statutory  construction and interpretation of Civil Code section 52, subdivision (c)(3). Thus,  the court finds Thurston inapposite to the present case, and now turns  to the statutory interpretation of “preventive relief” in Civil Code section  52, subdivision (c)(3)   Statutory Interpretation of “Preventive  Relief”   “In construing a statute, a court’s objective  is to ascertain and effectuate legislative intent. [Citation.] To determine  legislative intent, a court begins with the words of the statute, because they  generally provide the most reliable indicator of legislative intent.” (Hsu  v. Abbara (1995) 9 Cal.4th 863, 871.) The court “give[s] the words their  usual and ordinary meaning [Citation], while construing them in light of the  statute as a whole and the statute’s purpose [Citation].” (Pineda v.  Williams-Sonoma Stores, Inc. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 524, 529-530.) “If there is  no ambiguity in the language, [the court] presume[s] the Legislature meant what  it said and the plain meaning of the statute governs.” (People v. Snook (1997)  16 Cal.4th 1210, 1215.) “Only when the statute's language is ambiguous or  susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation, may the court turn to  extrinsic aids to assist in interpretation.” (Murphy v. Kenneth Cole  Productions, Inc. (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1094, 1103.) There is also a “general  rule that civil statutes for the protection of the public are, generally,  broadly construed in favor of that protective purpose.” (People ex rel.  Lungren v. Superior Court (1996) 14 Cal.4th 294, 313.)   Because the UCRA does not define “preventive  relief,” Irwindale 4th Street points the court to the division of the Civil  Code that governs injunctions. Civil Code section 3368 states “[p]reventive  relief is given by prohibiting a party from doing that which ought not to be  done.” In contrast, “[s]pecific relief is given: [(1.)] [b]y taking possession  of a thing, and delivering it to a claimant; [(2.)] [b]y compelling a party  himself to do that which ought to be done; or, [(3.)] [b]y declaring and determining  the rights of parties, otherwise than by an award of damages.” (Civ. Code, §  3367.) Based on this definition, Irwindale 4th Street argues “preventive  relief” pursuant to Civil Code section 52, subdivision (c)(3) is limited to prohibitions  and does not include compelling Irwindale 4th Street to make modifications to  the Irwindale property.   Rutherford responds by arguing this interpretation  is inconsistent with the statutory interpretation doctrine of in pari materia. Pursuant  to this doctrine, “[i]dentical language appearing in separate provisions  dealing with the same subject matter should be accorded the same  interpretation.” (Walker v. Superior Court (1988) 47 Cal.3d 112, 132.)  This doctrine applies to separate statutes “when they relate to the same person  or thing, or class of persons or things, or have the same purpose or object.” (Kaanaana  v. Barrett Business Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 158, 175.) Rutherford  argues this doctrine is inapplicable to Civil Code section 3368 as it was  enacted 150 years ago and is not part of the UCRA, instead dealing with  injunctive relief in general.  The court is not persuaded by this distinction.   Both sections deal with injunctive relief as  Civil Code section 3368 provides a general definition, while Civil Code section  52 provides a specific application for this type of injunctive relief in UCRA  actions.  This relation is supported by  Civil Code section 3366 which states “[s]pecific or preventive relief may be  given as provided by the laws of this state.” Because this provision  contemplates the defined types of injunctive relief that will be utilized in  other provisions, the court finds this definition applies to the same term used  in Civil Code section 52, subdivision (c)(3). And as detailed below, the court  finds the context of Civil Code section 52, subdivision (c)(3) provides further  support for applying the definition in Civil Code section 3368.   Irwindale 4th Street argues its  interpretation of “preventive relief” is supported by Civil Code section 51,  subdivision (d) and section 52, subdivision (g). While prohibiting  discrimination on the basis of protected characteristics including disability,  Civil Code section 51, subdivision (d) states as follows:   “Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any construction,  alteration, repair, structural or otherwise, or modification of any sort  whatsoever, beyond that construction, alteration, repair, or modification that  is otherwise required by other provisions of law, to any new or existing  establishment, facility, building, improvement, or any other structure, nor  shall anything in this section be construed to augment, restrict, or alter in  any way the authority of the State Architect to require construction,  alteration, repair, or modifications that the State Architect otherwise  possesses pursuant to other laws.” (Civ. Code, § 51, subd. (d).)   In providing a means for the enforcement of  Civil Code section 51, Civil Code section 52, subdivision (g) contains similar  language that states as follows:   “This section does not require any construction, alteration, repair,  structural or otherwise, or modification of any sort whatsoever, beyond that  construction, alteration, repair, or modification that is otherwise required by  other provisions of law, to any new or existing establishment, facility,  building, improvement, or any other structure, nor does this section augment,  restrict, or alter in any way the authority of the State Architect to require  construction, alteration, repair, or modifications that the State Architect  otherwise possesses pursuant to other laws.” (Civ. Code, § 52, subd. (g).)   Pointing to the first clause of each  provision, Irwindale 4th Street argues these provisions establish that injunctions  pursuant to Civil Code section 52 are limited to prohibiting a defendant from  acting to violate the UCRA and do not allow injunctions that order defendants  to affirmatively remove or deconstruct barriers to access. In opposition,  Rutherford argues this remedy is allowed by the second clause of these  provisions as removal of the alleged barriers are “otherwise required by other  provisions of law” in the form of the ADA. Because the meaning of these clauses  is unclear and ambiguous, the court must consider the legislative history of  these provisions. (See Hellinger v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2001) 91  Cal.App.4th 1049, 1057 [holding courts will “examine the history and background  of the statutory provision in order to ascertain the most reasonable  interpretation of the measure.”].)   In 1987, the California Legislature amended  Civil Code section 52 through A.B. 181 to add a subdivision (g) which stated as  follows:   “Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any construction,  alteration, repair, structural or otherwise, or modification of any sort  whatsoever to any new or existing establishment, facility, building,  improvement, or any other structure, or to augment, restrict, or alter in any  way the authority of the State Architect to require construction, alteration,  repair, or modifications that the State Architect otherwise possesses pursuant  to other provisions of the law. Nothing in this section shall require any  person renting, leasing, or otherwise providing real property for compensation  to modify his or her property in any way, or provide a higher degree of care  for a blind or other physically disabled person than for a person who is not  physically disabled.” (Compare Stats. 1986, ch. 244, § 1, with Stats.  1987, ch. 159, § 4.)   When A.B. 181 was initially proposed in the  State Assembly, it did not include subsection (g). (Irwindale 4th Street RJN,  Ex. 7, p. 3.) But during an April 22, 1987 hearing before the State Assembly’s  Committee on the Judiciary, the California Hotel and Motel Association opposed  the bill on the grounds that it was concerned A.B. 181 “may require rebuilding  ‘hotels in the state to accommodate all forms of physical disabilities.’” (Irwindale  4th Street RJN, Ex. 7, p. 16.) In response to these concerns, the committee  record stated “[t]he author and the proponents are reviewing amendments aimed  at addressing the opponent’s concern and have stated that they will continue  their efforts to reach any reasonable resolution of the problems.” (Irwindale  4th Street RJN, Ex. 7, p. 16.)   On May 27, 1987, subdivision (g) was added to  A.B. 181 through amendments in the State Senate. (Irwindale 4th Street RJN, Ex.  7, p. 6-7.) In 1998, the State Legislature amended Civil Code section 52,  subdivision (g) to add the language “beyond that construction, alteration,  repair, or modification that is otherwise required by other provisions of law.”  (Stats. 1998, ch. 195, § 4.) According to a report by the State Assembly’s  Committee on the Judiciary, the purpose of this amendment was to cure confusion  over the previous wording of subdivision (g) with the report stating as  follows:   “This language was added when the Act was amended to reference the  requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act. It was intended to  indicate that the Unruh Act itself imposed no additional requirements for  construction or alteration of facilities beyond those required by other laws.  However, some have misinterpreted this language to mean that under no  circumstances are entities required to make structural alterations. The bill  simply clarifies that while the Unruh Act itself does not require construction  or alteration to any facility, building, etc., such construction or alteration  may still be required by other provisions of law.” (Irwindale 4th Street RJN,  Ex. 1, p. 21.)   Based on the legislative history review set  forth above, the legislative intent behind UCRA was to prevent discrimination,  and limiting injunctive relief to preventive relief comports with that intent.  Furthermore, the court finds the interplay between the DPA and UCRA provides  additional support for this interpretation. “[S]tatutory language is to be  understood in context, with the whole of a statute considered when attempting  to construe each part.” (Mendoza v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th  1074, 1087.) Additionally, “the Legislature does not engage in idle acts, and  no part of its enactments should be rendered surplusage if a construction is  available that avoids doing so.” (Ibid.)   In prohibiting discrimination based on  protected characteristics like disability, UCRA incorporates the ADA and allows  plaintiffs to obtain UCRA’s remedies for ADA violations. (Jankey v. Lee (2012)  55 Cal.4th 1038, 1044 (Jankey).) UCRA remedies include injunctive relief,  actual damages, and statutory penalties of $4,000 per violation. (Ibid.)  The DPA “substantially overlaps with and complements” the UCRA by guaranteeing “people  with disabilities equal rights of access ‘to public places, buildings,  facilities and services, as well as common carriers, housing and places of  public accommodation.’” (Id, at p. 1044-1045, quoting Munson v. Del  Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661, 674, fn. 8.) Like UCRA, the DPA also  incorporates the ADA and remedies pursuant to the DPA are limited to actual  damages of at least $1,000. (Id., at p. 1045.) “Recognizing the overlap  between the [UCRA] and the [DPA], the Legislature expressly foreclosed double  recovery.” (Ibid.)   Although Civil Code section 55 is part of the  DPA, “it offers an independent basis for relief.” (Ibid.) It allows any  person who is “aggrieved or potentially aggrieved” by a violation of the DPA or  specific provisions of the Government Code and Health and Safety Code to obtain  injunctive relief. (Ibid, citing Civ. Code, § 55.)  Unlike the damage provisions of the DPA, injunctive  relief pursuant to Civil Code section 55 “is available as a cumulative remedy” in  an UCRA action. (Molski v. Arciero Wine Group (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th  786, 792.) One main difference between Civil Code section 55 and other UCRA or  DPA provisions, however, is the fact that the award of attorney fees is not  limited to a prevailing plaintiff and must be awarded to any party who  prevails. (Jankey, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1047.)   Unlike Civil Code section 52, subdivision  (c)(3), injunctive relief pursuant to Civil Code section 55 is not limited to  preventive relief. But, Rutherford’s interpretation would render this provision  superfluous as Rutherford could simply enjoin and seek affirmative remediation  of technical ADA violations pursuant to Civil Code section 52, subdivision  (c)(3) without the risk of incurring Irwindale 4th Street’s attorney fees if  Rutherford fails. Ultimately, the specific accessibility protections and  availability of injunctive relief in the DPA provide further support for  finding Civil Code section 52’s preventive relief is limited to prohibiting violations.   Lastly, the court acknowledges UCRA’s  protections are to be broadly interpreted. The court notes that Civil Code  section 52, subdivision (c)(3) allows preventive relief “as the complainant  deems necessary to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights described in this  section.” This broad language, however, does not allow the court to rewrite the  plain language of the statute. In this case, the court cannot ignore the fact  that the Legislature used a previously defined form of injunctive relief. And  as noted above, this interpretation is consistent with the other provisions of  the UCRA and DPA. Thus, the court finds “preventive relief” in Civil Code  section 52, subdivision (c)(3) is prohibitory and does not include specific and  affirmative relief.   Availability of Preventive Relief   In opposition to Irwindale 4th Street’s  motion, Rutherford contends the type of relief requested in this case is  preventive and that Irwindale 4th Street’s motion is premature. The court  disagrees.   “An injunction is prohibitory if it merely  has the effect of preserving the subject of the litigation in status  quo, while generally it is mandatory if it has the effect of compelling  performance of a substantive act and necessarily contemplates a change in the  relative rights of the parties at the time injunction is granted.” (Dosch v.  King (1961) 192 Cal.App.2d 800, 804.) The status quo in litigation “is  defined as ‘the last actual peaceable, uncontested status which preceded the  pending controversy.’” (People v. Hill (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 321, 331,  quoting United Railroads v. Superior Court (1916) 172 Cal. 80, 87.)   In this case, Rutherford contends the status  quo was “an accessible facility as required by law” and that preventive relief  is required “to prevent the business establishment from avoiding its obligation  to remove barriers.” But while Rutherford tries to artfully word this as  “preventing” Irwindale 4th Street from acting, ordering Irwindale 4th Street to  fulfill its obligations by removing barriers is not preventative. An order is  not merely prohibitory when it “calls for the performance of an affirmative act  — ripping out a building or other improvement [Citation] say, or firing one  worker and rehiring another [Citation].” (Daly v. San Bernardino County Bd.  of Supervisors (2021) 11 Cal.5th 1030, 1046.) Accordingly, an order for  Irwindale 4th Street to remedy alleged ADA violations by removing barriers to  access does not qualify as preventative relief.   Last, Rutherford contends this motion is  premature on the grounds that the specific parameters of an injunction against  Irwindale 4th Street are presently unknown. The court is not persuaded by this  argument, finding it lacks merit insofar as Rutherford’s Complaint does not  seek to enjoin any specific conduct by Irwindale 4th Street. Instead,  Rutherford’s only allegations involve the presence of noncompliant parking  spaces and architectural barriers to access. (Complaint, ¶ 12-14.) Thus, as  presently alleged, Rutherford’s Complaint does not support an injunction for  preventive relief pursuant to Civil Code section 52, subdivision (c)(3).    Accordingly, the court GRANTS Irwindale 4th Street’s motion to strike.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, Irwindale 4th Street’s motion to strike is GRANTED.  Plaintiff shall have ten (10) days leave to  amend.