  Case Number:  22PSCV01289    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Lakeview Loan Servicing, LLC’s Application
for Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Lakeview Loan Servicing, LLC’s Application
for Default Judgment is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for cancellation of instruments and declaratory judgment. In
September 2019, Wayne Situ and Lilian Li (Borrowers) obtained a loan from
Flagstar Bank, FSB (Flagstar) that was secured by a deed of trust on a property
owned by Borrowers in El Monte. Subsequently, Flagstar assigned its beneficial
interests in the 2019 deed of trust to Plaintiff Lakeview Loan Servicing, LLC
(Lakeview). But Lakeview then discovered the property was encumbered by three
additional deeds of trust, including an August 1989 deed of trust held by Jack
K. Rasmussen and Marguerite S. Rasmussen, a November 1989 deed of trust held by
Richard Q. Rousselle, and a 2017 deed of trust held by Xinchen, LLC (Xinchen).
While Lakeview alleges these deeds were paid off as a part of a refinance, Lakeview
has been unable to obtain a payoff-statement of reconveyance from these
parties.
On October
14, 2022, Lakeview filed a complaint against Rousselle, Xinchen, and the
unknown heirs, assigns, and devisees of the Rasmussens (Rasmussen successors),
as well as Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) cancellation
of instrument and (2) declaratory judgment. On November 1, Lakeview’s process
server personally served the Rasmussen successors in Renton, Washington.
On
November 17, 2022, Lakeview dismissed Xinchen from the present action. On
December 6, default was entered against the Rasmussen successors. On February
21, 2023, Lakeview dismissed Rousselle from the present action and replaced Doe
1 with the unknown heirs, assigns, and devisees of Rousselle (Rousselle
successors). On April 14, Lakeview’s process server personally served the
Rousselle successors in Eagle, Idaho. On May 18, default was entered against
the Rousselle successors.
On August
25, 2023, Lakeview submitted the present application for default judgment. An
OSC Re: Default Judgment is set for September 25.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Lakeview
seeks default judgment against Defendants in the form of cancellation of
instruments and declaratory judgment. Because the court finds Lakeview has
submitted sufficient evidence, the court GRANTS their application for
default judgment.
While
Code of Civil Procedure section 764.010 requires a prove-up hearing for
determinations involving a plaintiff’s title, Lakeview argues a prove-up
hearing is not required in the present case where Lakeview only seeks to cancel
instruments and does not seek to quiet title. The court agrees as “an action to
cancel an instrument is distinct from an action to quiet title.” (Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. v. Pyle (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 513, 523.)
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Lakeview’s
application for default judgment is GRANTED.