 Case Number:  23PSCV01470    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Rusnak/Pasadena’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Hamlet Avanessian and Ayris
Avanessian
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Rusnak/Pasadena’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’
Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be
determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On December 3, 2020, Plaintiffs
Hamlet Avanessian and Ayris Avanessian allegedly entered into a
warranty contract with Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (Volkswagen)
by leasing a 2020 Audi A4. The Avanessians allege the vehicle was delivered
with transmission, electrical, suspension, engine, and structural system
defects.
 
On May 15, 2023, the Avanessians filed a complaint against Defendants
Volkswagen, Rusnak/Pasadena, and Does 1-10, alleging (1) breach of express
warranty, (2) breach of implied warranty, (3) violation of Song-Beverly Act
section 1793.2, subdivision (b), and (4) negligent repair.
 
On July 21, 2023, Rusnak/Pasadena filed the present
demurrer. Prior to filing the present demurrer, Rusnak/Pasadena’s counsel sent the
Avanessians’ counsel a meet-and-confer letter on June 15. (Bell Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
A hearing on the present demurrer is set for September 25,
2023, with a case management conference set for October 23.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Rusnak/Pasadena demurs to the Avanessians’
fourth cause of action for negligent repair. For
the following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and
confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Rusnak/Pasadena’s
counsel filed a declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and confer by
sending a letter to the Avanessians’ counsel. (Bell Decl., ¶ 3.) Because Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41 places the burden to meet and confer telephonically or in-person on Rusnak/Pasadena,
the court finds this attempt insufficient as Rusnak/Pasadena’s counsel did not
attempt to reach out to the Avanessians’ counsel over the telephone or
in-person and a letter is not a code-compliant form of meeting and conferring.
Thus, the court finds a continuance of the hearing on Rusnak/Pasadena’s
demurrer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Rusnak/Pasadena’s demurrer is CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Rusnak/Pasadena’s counsel is also ordered to meet and
confer with the Avanessians’ counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a
supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9)
court days before the next scheduled hearing.