 Case Number:  23LBCV00891    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Magnolia Lopez, Yadira
Zambrano, Viridiana Zambrano, and Rebecca Martinez, individually and as
successors-in-interest to Decedent, Jose Perez, filed this action against
Defendants, Long Beach Healthcare Center, LLC, Secrom, Inc. dba Carson Senior
Assisted Living, and Amparo Ramirez for elder abuse and neglect, professional
negligence, NIED, and wrongful death.
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on
5/16/23.  Secrum filed an answer to the
complaint on 9/21/23.  LBHC filed a
demurrer and motion to strike on 9/21/23. 
Prior to the hearing on the demurrer, Plaintiffs filed their operative
First Amended Complaint on 1/26/24. 
Secrom filed its answer on 2/28/24, and LBHC filed a demurrer and motion
to strike on 3/28/24; the pleading challenge is scheduled for hearing on
10/22/24.  
 

Motion to Compel
     Arbitration and Stay Action Pending Outcome of Arbitration

a.     Relief
Sought
            Secrum has two companion motions on
calendar today.  The first motion seeks
to compel Plaintiffs to submit their claims for elder abuse and neglect,
professional negligence, and NIED to an arbitrator for resolution pursuant to
Decedent’s signed arbitration agreement. 
The second motion seeks an order staying the remainder of the action
(which would include Plaintiffs’ claim for wrongful death against all
defendants, as well as all of Plaintiffs’ claims against the two non-moving
defendants) pending the outcome of the arbitration proceedings.  
 
b.     Issues
Posed
Defendant provided a copy of a
signed arbitration agreement with Decedent, which is prima facie evidence that
the parties agreed to settle their disputes, if any, by way of
arbitration.  The following issues are
posed by way of the motion and opposition papers:
·        
Did Decedent suffer from dementia, such that he
was not competent to enter into the subject agreement?  Alternatively, should the hearing on the
motion be continued to permit discovery on this issue?
·        
Does the existence of claims against third
parties suggest the Court should exercise its discretion and refuse to compel
arbitration?
·        
Is the arbitration agreement unconscionable?
 
c.     Other
Defendants in the Action
The Court will consider the second
issue first.  Plaintiffs, in opposition
to the motion, rely on Birl v. Heritage Care LLC (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1313, 1319, wherein the Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court’s order
denying a motion to compel the plaintiff’s elder abuse claims into arbitration
in light of the fact that there were other co-defendants, and those
co-defendants were not subject to an arbitration agreement, and also in light
of the fact that the plaintiffs’ wrongful death claims were not subject to the
arbitration agreement.  
 
Defendant, in reply, argues Birl is
not on point because (a) the Birl Court relied largely on the fact that the
subject agreement did not comply with HSC §1599.81, (b) Plaintiffs’ claims
against the co-defendants in this action are not even at issue, such that there
may not be claims against third parties to adjudicate, and (c) the
co-defendants have not objected to the motion to compel arbitration.
 
In Birl, the plaintiffs sued a
hospital, its physicians, and a nursing facility for elder abuse, wrongful
death, and related claims.  The nursing
facility moved to compel arbitration, and the trial court denied the motion on
the ground that there was a risk of conflicting rulings.  The Court of Appeals affirmed.  
 
Defendants argue Birl is
distinguishable because the trial court relied, in part, on HSC §1599.81.  The trial court ruled on the motion on two
grounds – first, potential conflicts between claims subject to arbitration and
claims not subject to arbitration, and second, the nursing home’s failure to
adhere to §1599.81.  The Court of
Appeals, however, considered and affirmed the trial court’s ruling based solely
on the first articulated ground.  The
Court of Appeals’ analysis concerning the §1599.81 argument was relegated to
footnote 2, wherein it expressly noted that it need not consider the argument
because it was affirming the trial court’s ruling based on potential conflict
in rulings.
 
Defendants next argue that Birl is
distinguishable because the co-defendants in this action have not yet answered
the complaint, and instead have a pleading challenge pending.  LBHC has a pending demurrer on Plaintiffs’
claims for elder abuse, NIED, and violation of patient’s rights.  Plaintiffs have also pled a claim for
professional negligence against LBHC. 
Thus, even if LBHC’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend, LBHC
will still be a party to the professional negligence cause of action.  Because the claims against the two entities
overlap, there is a possibility of conflicting rulings.  Additionally, as the Birl Court noted, there
is a risk of conflicting rulings if the plaintiffs’ elder abuse and other tort
claims are submitted to arbitration, but their wrongful death claims proceed by
way of litigation.  Thus, the risk of
conflicting rulings is twofold, and Defendant’s reply fails to distinguish this
case from Birl.
 
Defendant’s final argument is that
LBHC has not opposed the motion to compel arbitration and motion for stay of
proceedings.  That is not, however, the
inquiry.  The inquiry is whether there is
a risk of inconsistent rulings in the event the motion is granted.  
 
d.     Conclusion
The Court denies the motions
pursuant to CCP §1281.2(c) and the analysis of Birl.  The Court declines to consider the arguments
relating to capacity and unconscionability, as doing so is not necessary to a
resolution of the merits of the motions. 
Additionally, the Court declines to rule on the parties’ evidentiary
objections, as doing so is not necessary to a resolution of the merits of the
motions.
 
Defendant is ordered to file a
responsive pleading within twenty days.  
 

OSC re: Proof of
     Service

The parties are reminded that there
is an OSC re: proof of service on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the
motions.  The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motions and the OSC.