 Case Number:  24STCV11392    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  32 


 
DUSTIN RIACH, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
HERITAGE AUCTIONEERS & GALLERIES,
  INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV11392
  Hearing Date:  January 8, 2025
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant heritage auctioneers &
  galleries, inc.’s motion to uphold confidential designation 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs Dustin
Riach and Jason Rivas filed this action against Defendants Heritage Auctioneers
& Galleries, Inc. and Brian Chanes. Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint on December 4, 2024. The complaint asserts causes of action
for declaratory relief, negligence, fraud, and deceptive trade practices. 
Plaintiffs discovered an original Star
Trek starship model and retained Defendant Heritage to sell it. Plaintiffs
allege that Heritage breached its duties to them by selling the starship to Rod
Roddenberry (son of Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry) at a discount to garner
favor and future business for itself. Plaintiffs allege that Roddenberry
Entertainment, Inc. (REI) asserted a false title claim to the starship. 
            On November 21, 2024, Defendant
Heritage filed the instant motion to uphold confidential designation.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on December 11, 2024. Defendant filed its
reply on December 30, 2024.   
 
DISCUSSION
            During discovery, Heritage produced
19 documents that it designated as Confidential under the protective order.
(Tiemstra Decl. ¶ 5.) After Plaintiffs objected to the designation, Heritage
de-designated 9 of the documents. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) This motion concerns
the remaining 10 documents. (Id., ¶ 8.)  
   
A protective order may be used to prevent
disclosure of “a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or
commercial information.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060(b)(5).) According to
Heritage, the documents consist of confidential settlement communications
between Heritage and a third party. This sufficiently justifies the
Confidential designation. (See Hinshaw Winkler v. Superior Court (1996)
51 Cal.App.4th 233, 241 [“The privacy of a settlement is generally understood
and accepted in our legal system, which favors settlement and therefore
supports attendant needs for confidentiality”].) 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Heritage has failed to satisfy the requirements for sealing court records under
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550. However, this is not a motion to seal court records;
it is a motion to uphold a confidential designation over records produced in
discovery. This procedure is governed by the terms of the protective order, not
Rule 2.550. (See Aug. 19, 2024 Protective Order, ¶ 6.)  
Plaintiffs do not dispute that the
documents at issue consist of settlement communications, nor do Plaintiffs cite
any authority suggesting that settlement communications do not deserve
confidential protection. 
CONCLUSION
Defendant Heritage’s motion to uphold
confidential designation is GRANTED. 
 