 Case Number:  23STCV18956    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative
Ruling 
 
Judge
Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 22, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Leticia Trejo, et al. v. 667 S.
Carondelet St. LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV18956
 





















 
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
667 S. Carondelet St. LLC, and Statewide Enterprises, Inc.
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs Leticia Trejo, et al.
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from habitability
issues at the property located at 667 S. Carondelet, Los Angeles, CA 90057 (the
Subject Property). Leticia Trejo, Hector Mendoza, Hector Octavio Mendoza,
Soraya Chimil-Mendoza, Aylin Mendoza, Matilde Esperanza, Ordonez Tzorin,
Marleny Ramos, and Mario Fernando Ramos-Ordonez (collectively, Plaintiffs) are low-income
tenants of the Subject Property.  The
Subject Property is owned by 667 S. Carondelet St. LLC and managed by Statewide
Enterprises, Inc (collectively, Defendants). 
Defendants have owned and managed the Subject Property since February
14, 2017, to present.  Plaintiffs were
tenants in the Subject Property prior to Defendants’ ownership and management
of the Subject Property.
 
Plaintiffs allege various
breaches of habitability, including cockroach and bed bug infestations, and mold
issues, among others.  Despite receiving
numerous complaints from Plaintiffs about these issues, Defendants failed to
take appropriate steps to remedy the problems.  
 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiffs
commenced this action against Defendants. 
The operative pleading is the Second Amended Complaint (SAC).  In the SAC, Plaintiffs allege causes of
action against Defendants for: 
 
1.      Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Habitability 
2.      Statutory Breach of the
Implied Warranty of Habitability
3.      Negligence
4.      Breach of Quiet Enjoyment 
5.      Nuisance
6.      Violation of Business &
Professions Code, section 17200
7.      Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
8.      Violation of Los Angeles
Municipal Code section 45.30, et seq.
 
Plaintiffs request punitive
damages.
 
Defendants demur to the
first, second, fourth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action and seek an
order striking punitive damages from the SAC.
 
Plaintiffs filed oppositions
to the demurrer and motion to strike.  
 
Defendants filed replies.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER  
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read
the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as
true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the
complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject
to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan,
Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
 
B.    
Application
 
Defendants demur to the first, second, fourth, sixth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action.  As
a threshold matter, Plaintiffs concede that the first, second and fourth causes
of action are deficiently pleaded. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first, second, and fourth causes of
action is SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend is
GRANTED.  The court proceeds to consider Defendants
arguments to the remaining causes of action.[1]    
 
1.      Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (7th Cause of Action)
 
The seventh cause of action is based on the following
allegations: “The conduct of Defendants and/or its agents and employees was
extreme and outrageous. As landlord and manager of the property, Defendants
were in a position of authority and power which it consistently and
systematically abused by, among other things: failing to maintain the property
and rental units in a habitable condition; refusing to abate numerous
disgusting and dangerous hazards; blatantly ignoring, not only Plaintiffs’
repair requests and complaints, but County and City agency orders to comply
with building, health, and safety codes.” 
(SAC, ¶ 108.)  Those dangerous hazards
included cockroach and bed bug infestations, mold, and plumbing issues.  (SAC, ¶¶ 44-63.)  Further, Defendants prioritized maximizing
profits head of all other considerations, including Plaintiffs’ safety and
health.  (SAC, ¶ 110.)  
 
The elements of an intention infliction of emotional
distress (IIED) claim are: (1) that defendant’s conduct was outrageous; (2)
that defendant intended to cause plaintiff emotional distress, or that
defendant acted with reckless disregard of the probability that plaintiff would
suffer emotional distress, knowing that plaintiff was present when the conduct
occurred; (3) that plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress, and (4) that
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s severe emotional
distress.¿ (CACI No. 1600; Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050-51.)¿ “It is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous.¿
It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a
plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.”¿ (Christensen v. Superior Court
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903-904.)¿ 
 
Defendants attack the first and third elements.  First, Defendants argue Plaintiffs have not sufficiently
alleged outrageous conduct. In support, Defendants point to allegations
showing Defendants made multiple attempts to remediate the situation.  In this way, Defendants contend the
allegations amount to nothing more than negligence.  
 
The court disagrees. 
The SAC alleges two instances of Defendants attempting to remedy an
issue.  With respect to rodent infestations
in Unit 1, Plaintiffs allege the treatments were ineffective because Defendants
utilized localized treatments for a problem which was pervasive throughout the
Property.  (SAC, ¶ 50.)  The other instance is painting over moldy
walls which only visibly addressed the mold issue.  (SAC, ¶ 55.) 
Contrary to Defendants’ position, the court finds these allegations,
accepted as true, easily rise to the level of outrageous conduct, especially
when considered in the context of the pleading as a whole: Defendants were aware
of these conditions for years and failed to take adequate remedial issues.  (SAC, ¶¶ 44-63.)  The SAC adequately alleges outrageous conduct.
 
Second, Defendants argue Plaintiffs have pled conclusory
and boilerplate language rather than facts sufficient to show any of them
suffered from “severe” emotional distress. 
In support, Defendants cite Pitman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197
Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047 for the proposition that “the mere allegation that the
plaintiffs suffered severe emotional distress, without facts indicating the
nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of the
defendant's alleged outrageous conduct, failed to state a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.”  

 
Pitman is easily
distinguishable.  The nature of the IIED
claims in Pitman and this case are vastly different.  In Pitman, Pitman based his IIED claim on
his dismissal by the City of Oakland from employment as a police communications
dispatcher after being cited and arrested by the California Highway Patrol.  Pitman alleged in conclusory fashion that he
suffered shame, humiliation, embarrassment, and loss of his employment.  The trial court sustained the demurrer. The
Court of Appeal affirmed, opining “[b]eing dismissed from a job is not an
uncommon occurrence in modern society. The allegation that plaintiff suffered
shame, humiliation and embarrassment without further factual
explanation does not meet the requirement of specificity called for in Bogard. Moreover,
whatever shame, humiliation and embarrassment plaintiff may have suffered
was the product of his own unlawful conduct.” 
(Pitman, at pp. 1047-48.)  
 
By contrast, this is a habitability case with allegations
that suggest Plaintiffs endured deplorable conditions over several years
because of Defendants failure to adequately remedy the issues.  Plaintiffs’ alleged severe distress, which
also includes “extreme suffering, anguish, depression, fearfulness, anxiety,
nightmares, difficulty sleeping, embarrassment, and shame” are made in the
context of minor plaintiffs suffering physical harm from the rodent
infestations.  The factual allegations here
are not mere boilerplate.    
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action
is OVERRULED.
 
2.      Violation of Business &Practices (6th Cause of Action)
 
The sixth cause of action is based on the following allegations:
“[T]he rental of the Property constitutes a ‘business practice.’ Plaintiffs are
informed and believe and thereon allege that Defendants engaged in the illegal
and unfair business practice of owning and/or renting substandard,
untenantable, uninhabitable, dangerous, unhealthy and unsanitary housing.
Defendants’ illegal and unfair business practices include, but are not limited
to, Defendants’ acts and omissions described herein as well as the ongoing
violation of the statutes, regulations and/or ordinances described in this
complaint. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that Defendants’ illegal and
wrongful conduct as described in this complaint has been adopted and
implemented by Defendants as a means of conducting business” and “for the
purpose of maximizing their net income and profits from such properties.”   (SAC, ¶¶ 102-102.)   
 
The Unfair Competition Law (UCL) is codified at Business
and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.¿ Section 17204 of the UCL provides
that a private person “who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or
property as a result of the unfair competition” may bring a 17200 action.¿
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204.)¿ “To bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must show
either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice, or (2)
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising. [Citation.]¿ Because the
UCL is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair
competition—acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”¿ (Adhav
v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970, citations and
quotations omitted.)¿ 
 
Defendants argue the sixth cause of action fails because
there are no allegations “(1) establishing the specific unfair/deceptive
advertising or statements allegedly made defendants, (2) establishing the
Plaintiffs suffered an actual economic injury, (3) establishing the economic
injury was the result of the unfair business practices or false advertising
engaged in by defendants, and (4) establishing Plaintiffs actually relied upon
any unfair business practice and/or false advertising allegedly engaged in by
defendants.”  
 
Defendants arguments lack merit.  First, the UCL is written in the
disjunctive.  (Adhav, at p.
970.)  It can be based on misleading
advertising, or, as is alleged here, an unfair business practice.  Second, Plaintiffs alleged having suffered an
economic injury.  Specifically,
Plaintiffs paid rent for dwellings with uninhabitable conditions.  In other words, Plaintiffs overpaid for  rent.  (See,
e.g., Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 874, 893 [stating the “methods of measuring damages for a
landlord’s breach of the warranty of habitability include (1) the difference between
the rent paid and the amount of rent that would have been reasonable given the
defect; (2) the difference between the fair rental value of the premises had
they been in the condition warranted and their fair rental value with the
uninhabitable condition [citation;] and ([3]) the rent paid by the tenant
multiplied by the percentage of the premises rendered unusable due to the uninhabitable
condition.”].)  Third, Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege their economic injury was the result of Defendants’ illegal
conduct.  (See SAC, ¶¶ 104-105.)  Fourth, the element of reliance is required
for a UCL claim when it is based on fraud. However, as discussed, Plaintiffs do
not base their UCL claim on fraud. Defendants need not look further than the
authority they cite, In re Tobacco II Cases (2009) 46 Cal.4th 298, 328
which states, “a plaintiff must plead and prove actual reliance to satisfy
the standing requirement of section 17204 but, consistent with the
principles set forth above, is not required to necessarily plead and prove
individualized reliance on specific misrepresentations or false
statements where, as here, those misrepresentations and false statements
were part of an extensive and long-term advertising campaign.” 
 
 Accordingly, the demurrer
to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
3.      Violation of Municipal Code Section 45.30 (8th Cause of Action)
 
The eighth cause of action
is based on Defendants’ failure to perform and timely complete repairs and
maintenance required by federal, state, county, or local housing, health, or
safety laws; and other repeated acts or omissions of such significance as to
substantially interfere with or disturb the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of
a tenant and that cause, or likely to cause, or are committed with the
objective to cause a tenant to surrender or waive any rights in relation to
such tenancy.  (SAC, ¶ 114.)
 
Los Angeles Municipal Code
section 45.30 “provides an aggrieved tenant with a private right of action and affirmative
defense in eviction, ejectment, and other actions.”  (Demurrer, p. 15:15-17.)  The ordinance went into effect on August 6,
2021.
 
Defendants argue the eighth cause of action
fails because the ordinance is not retroactive and thus cannot apply to
enumerated offenses that occurred prior to the effective date of the
legislation.  The argument lacks merit.  Defendants’ alleged misconduct falls outside
and within the applicable period.  (SAC,
¶¶ 45-46.)  The claim does not fail
simply because only some of the alleged offenses are not actionable.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eighth cause
of action is OVERRULED.
 
III.      DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to strike the
whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a
motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)  
 
“The grounds for a motion
to strike are limited to matters appearing on the face of the challenged
pleading or matters which must or may be judicially noticed. (§ 437, subd. (a);
Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d
17, 20.)  
 
B.     Application
 
Plaintiffs seek punitive
damages against Defendant Simone only in connection with the fourth and sixth
causes of action.  (See SAC ¶¶ 87, 95,
97, 98, and Prayer for Relief no. 3.)
 
Defendants move to strike
the allegations supporting and request for punitive damages.  
 
“In an action for the
breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover
damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)   
 
Here, the court finds
Defendants are entitled to an order striking punitive damages from the SAC, but
not for a reasons Defendants identify. 
Defendants are corporate entities. 
However, the SAC does not allege that any officer director, or managing
agent of Defendants “had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  
 
Accordingly, the motion to
strike punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer to the first,
second, and fourth causes of action is Sustained.  The demurrer to the sixth, seventh, and
eighth causes of action is Overruled. 
 
The motion to strike is Granted.  
 
Leave to amended is
Granted.
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
serve and file their Third Amended Complaint within 15 days of the date of this
order.
 
Defendants to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   October 22, 2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of the
  Superior Court 




 
            


