  Case Number:  21STCV34645    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
22, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Prospect
Park, LLC, et al.  v. Azealia Banks, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV34645
 





















 
PLAINTIFFS
AND CROSS-DEFENDANTS JEFF KWATINETZ AND PROSPECT PARK LLC’S MOTION TO PARTIALLY
LIFT STAY AS TO CLAIMS OTHER THAN THE EIGHTH CAUSE OF ACTION FOR INTENTIONAL INFLICTION
OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS PENDING APPEAL FROM DENIAL AZEALIA BANKS’S SPECIAL MOTION
TO STRIK UNDER C.C.P. § 425.16



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Jeff Kwatinetz and
Prospect Park, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant and Cross-Complainant Azealia
Banks


 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
This action arises from the deterioration of a business relationship
between Jeff Kwatinetz (“Kwatinetz”), founder and manager of music production
company, Prospect Park, LLC, and Azealia Banks (“Banks”), a recording artist
and rapper.  
 
            On September 20, 2021, Kwatinetz and
Prospect Park, LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), initiated this action against
Banks and Lasagna Girl, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”).  The operative
is the First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The
FAC alleged the causes of action for (1) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Interference with Contractual Relations; (3)
Defamation; (4) Trade Libel; (5) Stalking in Violation of California Civil Code
Section 1708.7; (6) Invasion of Privacy; (7) Civil Extortion, and (8)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
            On November 14, 2023, Banks filed a
Special Motion to Strike Pursuant to C.C.P § 425.16 to the Eighth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress in the FAC. The motion
was denied on April 30, 2024. 
 
            On May 2, 2024, Banks filed a Notice
of Appeal of the court’s April 30, 2024, order. 

 
            On May 3, 2024, the court stayed the
entire action pending resolution of Banks’s appeal.
 
            On July 18, 2024, a Notice of
Default was issued as to Banks’s appeal.
 
            On August 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
this motion to partially lift the stay as to all causes of action not embraced
by Banks’s appeal.  The hearing was
continued to September 6, 2024. 
 
            On September 6, 2024, after oral
argument, the court continued the hearing on the motion to October 8, 2024, to
allow the Court of Appeal to determine the status of the appeal. 
 
            On September 24, 2024, the Second
District Court of Appeal granted Banks’s motion for relief from default.  
 
            On October 8, 2024, after oral
argument, the court continued the hearing on the motion and directed Plaintiffs
to file a status report regarding the appeal. 
 
            On October 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a status report indicating Banks’s opposition to Plaintiffs Motion to Dismiss
the appeal is due by October 18, 2024, and further, that Banks’s counsel also
filed a motion to withdraw as counsel in the appeal.
 
The court now rules as follows.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
& LEGAL STANDARD
 
It is well settled law that an appeal
of ruling denying a special motion to strike automatically “stays all further
trial court proceedings on the merits upon the causes of action affected by the
motion.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180,
186.)  This case does not present any
issue or circumstance that warrant deviation from the foregoing rule.  The court denied Plaintiff’s special motion
to strike the Eighth Cause of Action. 
The allegations supporting that cause of action likewise support
Plaintiffs’ other claims. (See FAC, ¶¶ 40-79.) 
Contrary to Plaintiffs’ argument, Banks’s appeal embraces or affects more
than Plaintiffs’ Eighth Cause of Action for IIED.  While the court certainly appreciates
Plaintiffs’ argument regarding the viability of the original seven causes of
action regardless of the ruling on appeal, Plaintiffs, nonetheless, fail to demonstrate
that the seven causes of action would be unaffected should the court of appeal strike
all of the paragraphs targeted by the anti-SLAPP motion.  Indeed, Plaintiffs fail to do the work to
identify all of the paragraphs targeted by the anti-SLAPP motion and whether
they support any of the initial seven causes of action.  Moreover, should the Court of Appeal affirm
this court’s ruling allowing the eighth cause of action to proceed and should the
parties go forward with discovery now as to the first seven causes of action,
then, after the ruling by the Court of Appeal, the parties and the court would
likely be drawn back into discovery issues related to the Eighth Cause of Action.  For example, any deposition would have to be
redone to cover the issues related to the Eighth Cause of Action.   
 
At the last hearing, Plaintiffs
were directed to file a status report regarding the appeal. The report
indicates Banks’s appeal has not been dismissed.  Given the foregoing, the court continues the
motion pending resolution of the issues in the court of appeal.  
Plaintiffs also request the
following: (1) that an OSC be set regarding status of counsel for Defendant
Lasagna Girl, LLC and (2) another opportunity to argue why the court should
partially lift the stay. 
 
 
III.      CONCLUSION
 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Motion to Partially Lift the Stay is continued to January 21, 2025. 
The also set an OSC re: Status of Counsel for both Defendants on the
same day --  January 21, 2025 at 9:00 AM.
  
 
Clerk of the court to give
notice.
 
Dated:   October 22, 2024                                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 