 Case Number:  24STCV05150    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 6, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Iulia Robinson v. Kittrich Corporation,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV05150            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL (x2) 

 
MOVING PARTY:               Attorney Cristina M. Saca, counsel for Defendants
Kittrich Corporation and Robert Friedland.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 11/04/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination
that was filed on February 29, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected
to pervasive discrimination and harassment based on her gender and medical
condition which ultimately resulted in her termination. 
 
Attorney Cristina M. Saca, counsel
for Defendants Kittrich Corporation and Robert Friedland, moves to be relieved
as counsel. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Attorney Cristina M. Saca, counsel
for Defendants Kittrich Corporation and Robert Friedland, moves to be relieved
as counsel. 
 
Moving counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) as to both parties and filed proof of service by mail with the
Court. Moving counsel served the motions on the Defendants by mail and
confirmed that the addresses were current by telephone. (MC-052 ¶ 3(b).) 
 
In general, an attorney may withdraw with
or without cause so long as the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice
to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in
the litigation, because that would prejudice client, but can withdraw
otherwise. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904,
915.) The court has discretion to deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where
the withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding,
but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably. (Mandell
v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)   
 
            Here, trial in this matter not yet
set. The only other hearings in this matter are a Case Management Conference
scheduled for December 4, 2024 at 8:30 AM, and a Motion to Compel Responses to
Requests for Production brought by Plaintiff as to Defendant Kittrich
Corporation, scheduled for a hearing on April 2, 2025 at 9:00 Am. The risk of
prejudice to these Defendants is therefore low. Moving Counsel states that
withdrawal is necessary because there has been a breach of a material term of
the agreements between the Defendants and counsel, because the clients have
rendered the representation unreasonably difficult and failed to heed the
advice of counsel, and because the clients have refused to execute a
substitution of attorney. (MC-052 ¶ 2.) In light of the low risk of prejudice
to the parties at this juncture, the Court finds that Moving Counsel has
demonstrated good cause for withdrawal. 
 
Accordingly, Attorney Cristina M. Saca’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Kittrich Corporation is GRANTED.
 
Attorney Cristina M. Saca’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel for Defendant Robert Friedland is also GRANTED.
 
This ruling is conditioned on Moving Counsel serving notice
to all parties and filing proof of service of the Court’s ruling and orders with
the Court. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 6,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 