 Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 26, 2024 continued to April 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually
  and as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) demurs to the answer and the first
amended answer filed by Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee for
the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
trustee for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, individually and
as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West End
Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells (“Defendants”).  Plaintiff also moves to strike the answer and
first amended answer.  
 
The Court notes that the demurrer and motion to strike the original
answer are moot because Defendants filed a first amended answer.  Therefore, the Court addresses only the
demurrer and motion to strike the first amended answer.
 
Defendants oppose both motions and Plaintiff replies.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, the Friday before filing the instant demurrer and motion to
strike, Plaintiff called Defense counsel’s office, asking to speak to Thomas
Citron, who was not available.  Thus, Plaintiff
hung up without asking to speak to Katherine A. Tatikian, who filed and served
Defendants’ answer, and who was available. 
(Ortiz Decl. ¶ 3; Tatikian Decl. ¶ 4.) 

 
At the March 26, 2024 hearing, the Court found Plaintiff’s meet and
confer efforts insufficient and continued the hearing to April 18, 2024 “so the
parties may adequately meet and confer in a good faith attempt to resolve their
disputes with respect to the pleadings without the need for judicial
intervention” and ordered the parties to “file declarations regarding
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), by no
later than April 11, 2024.”  (Minute
Order, March 26, 2024.)  Since both
Plaintiff and Defense counsel were physically present at the last hearing, the
Court suggested the parties talk before leaving the courthouse that day.
 
Since the March 26 hearing, the Court notes that Plaintiff
had filed untimely reply briefs on March 25, 2024 – the day before the original
hearing – which were not uploaded to the  docket by the time of the previous
hearing.  On April 11, at approximately
10:45 p.m., Plaintiff filed amended reply briefs, arguing that she did satisfy
her meet and confer obligations by making one unsuccessful attempt to reach to Mr.
Citron by phone as noted above.  The
April 11 briefing included identical declarations indicating:
 
11. That I tried to meet and confer by telephone
with the Defendants’ attorney, Thomas Citron, and the Defendants’ counsel
receptionist would not let me talk to him in March 2. (She was also extremely
rude.) and in April 24, Mr. Citron was in the office but wouldn’t come to the
line to meet and confer. 
 
12. That I did try to talk to Mr. Citron’s
assistant, attorney Tatikian in my attempts to confer in March of 2024, to
ascertain when was Mr. Citron going to be available and I was not transfer to
her either.
 
(April
11, 2024 Ortiz Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.)  Those
were the only passages in Plaintiff’s declaration pertaining to Plaintiff’s
meet and confer efforts.
 
            Paragraph 12 appears to clarify that
in Plaintiff’s prior attempt to meet and confer before the last hearing, she
attempted to reach either Mr. Citron or Ms. Tatikian, but was unsuccessful.  
 
It is unclear what Plaintiff means by “in April 24, Mr. Citron was in
the office but wouldn’t come to the line to meet and confer.”  April 24 is obviously after the April 11 date
Plaintiff filed her declaration.  Plaintiff
may mean to say that in the month of April 2024, she made an additional attempt
to call defense counsel’s office, but Mr. Citron refused to meet and confer.  However, the declaration does not clearly indicate
that Plaintiff actually reached out to defense counsel since the last
hearing.  Moreover, as the Court
previously noted, a single failed attempt to reach defense counsel by phone
does not demonstrate a good faith attempt to meet and confer.
 
On April 16, Ms. Tatikian filed a declaration indicating:
 
3. On April 11, 2024, I attempted to contact
Plaintiff by telephone to request that she meet and confer with me regarding
her demurrer and motion to strike. When she did not answer, I left her a voice
mail message requesting that she meet and confer with me on April 11, 12 and/or
15.
 
4. On April 11, 2024, I followed up on my voice
mail message with an email advising that I was available all day on April 11,
12 and 15, 2024 to meet and confer with her. A true and correct copy of my
April 11, 2024 email to Plaintiff is attached to this declaration as Exhibit A.
 
5. Plaintiff never responded to my voice mail
message or to my email message.
 
(April
16 Tatikian Decl. ¶¶ 3-5.)
 
            Therefore, on April 11, instead of responding
to Ms. Tatikian to discuss the merits of the demurrer and motion to strike in
compliance with Section 430.41, subdivision (a), as the Court previously
ordered her to do, Plaintiff instead chose to file an amended reply brief and
declaration, arguing that her prior efforts to meet and confer were sufficient
and she was not required to make further efforts to meet and confer.  
 
            Additionally, at the last hearing,
the Court suggested that the parties talk to each other before leaving the
courthouse.  Because neither declaration
indicates that any such conversation took place, the Court assumes the parties
did not follow the Court’s prior suggestion.
 
Therefore, the Court finds Plaintiff has still not satisfied her
obligation to demonstrate that she has made a good faith attempt to meet and
confer with Defendant’s counsel (either Mr. Citron or Ms. Tatikian) to try to resolve
this dispute without the need for Court intervention.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Because Plaintiff has failed to adequately meet and confer with
Defendants prior to filing the instant demurrer and motion to strike the first
amended answer or demonstrate diligent efforts to meet and confer, the Court
continues the hearing on both motions to May 1, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department
207.
 
The parties shall meet and confer in the Courthouse on April 18, 2024
and report to the Court the results of their efforts to resolve the issues set
forth in the motions.  
 
In the alternative, if the neither party is present in the Courthouse
on April 18, 2024, the Court orders the parties and/or counsel for parties to meet
and confer in person at the Courthouse in Department 207 on April 23, 2024 commencing
at 8:30 A.M. and report to the Court the results of their efforts to resolve
the issues set forth in the motions.    
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s orders and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 18, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court