  Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Andrew Gelis




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Pericles Chamis 



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Declaration
     of Kathleen A. Stosuy
Notice
     of Lodging Separate Volume of Documentary Evidence

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment;
     Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Declaration of Waukeen McCoy
Declaration of Vinay Ginjupalli
Declaration of Marilyn E. McCullum
Separate Statement of Disputed
     Material Facts 
Objections to Evidence


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment
Evidentiary
     Objections

 
BACKGROUND
 
On or about November 4, 2020, Plaintiff Pericles Chamis (“Plaintiff”)
underwent an upper endoscopy procedure, during which “Plaintiff began vomiting
and convulsing on the operating table.” 
(Fifth Amended Complaint [“5AC”] ¶¶ 20, 26.)  A subsequent MRI revealed that Plaintiff
suffered a stroke, causing central visual impairment, dysphagia, and cognitive
and behavioral issues.  (5AC ¶ 32.)  Plaintiff brought suit against the surgeon,
Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D. and Defendant Dale Prokupek, M.D., Inc.
(“Prokupek”); Dr. Prokupek’s company, Defendant Millennium Medical Associates,
Inc. (“Millennium”); Dr. Prokupek’s employee Defendant Andrew Gelis (“Gelis”); anesthesiologist
Defendant Michelle Dinh, M.D. (“Dinh”), Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc.
(“Soma”), where the endoscopy was performed; Defendant Sean Ravaei, owner and
operator of Soma (“Ravaei”); nurse practitioner Defendant Jeanne Hershey-Weber (“Hershey-Weber”);
and nurse Defendant Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”); alleging three causes of action: (1)
professional negligence – medical malpractice; (2) breach of fiduciary duty;
and (3) intentional misrepresentation.
 
On November 2, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant Gelis’s demurrer as
to the first and second causes of action without leave to amend.  (November 2, 2023 Minute Order.)  Defendant Gelis now moves for summary
judgment as to the third cause of action.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Gelis
replies.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff’s
Objections to Gelis’s evidence
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Overruled
5.     Overruled
 
            Gelis’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Gelis’s evidentiary objections:
 
1.     Overruled
2.     Overruled
3.     Overruled
4.     Overruled
5.     Sustained
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.     INTENTIONAL MISREPRESENTATION
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
 
Plaintiff alleges Gelis altered Plaintiff’s medical records (1) “to
cover Hershey-Weber’s improper instructions she gave to Plaintiff regarding
stopping his Xarelto Regimen” (5AC ¶ 40); and (2) “to obscure the cause of
Plaintiff’s injuries” (5AC ¶¶ 82, 102, 118.) 

 
The medical records in question are (1) the June 22, 2020 progress
notes; (2) the October 14, 2020 progress notes; and (3) the November 4, 2020
Operative Report.
 
Gelis argues that Plaintiff cannot prove (1) Gelis’s alterations to
the June and October 2020 were misrepresentations made to Plaintiff; (2)
Gelis did not intend Plaintiff to rely on any misrepresentations in the medical
records; (3) Plaintiff did not rely on Gelis’s misrepresentations to his
detriment because he told his medical care providers in the emergency room on
November 4, 2020 when he stopped taking his Xarelto; and (4) Gelis did not make
any changes to the November 4, 2020 Operative Report.
 
a.     Defendant’s Evidence           
 
Gelis first argues that
Gelis’s alterations to Plaintiff’s medical records were not directed at the
Plaintiff, nor were they intended for Plaintiff to rely on them.  In support, Gelis provides evidence that the
changes were the inadvertent result of a template update, and Gelis did not
intentionally enter Plaintiff’s medical record to make any changes.  
 
Specifically, Gelis provides the
audit log showing the changes that Gelis made to the record on June 22, 2020
(Exhibit C) and October 14, 2020 (Exhibit E) and demonstrating that the changes
made on August 16, 2021 were modified by “template”; expert deposition
testimony from Dean F. Sittig, Ph.D. explaining and interpreting the audit logs
consistent with Gelis’s narrative; deposition testimony from Dr. Prokupek
indicating that after Dr. Prokupek learned he was being sued, he implemented
changes to the template for the electronic medical record system (Exhibit G at
pp. 68:24-70:22); and deposition testimony from Gelis indicating his
understanding was the purpose of the template changes was not to adjust
existing records, but to help prevent lawsuits in the future.  (Exhibit H at pp. 89:17-25; 203:3-7.)
 
Gelis’s evidence that he
altered Plaintiff’s medical records inadvertently by way of a global template
update, as opposed to intentionally accessing Plaintiff’s specific medical
record to make changes, goes to the elements of Gelis’s knowledge of falsity
and intent to induce Plaintiff’s reliance, not whether Gelis made a
misrepresentation to Plaintiff, as Gelis has argued.
 
Gelis next argues that
Plaintiff did not rely on Gelis’s alterations to the medical records to his
detriment.  In support, Gelis has
produced the November 4, 2020 ED Provider Notes from Providence St. Joseph’s
Medical Center Emergency Department, where Plaintiff was treated immediately
following the procedure at Soma.  The
Providence notes indicate “He […] was on Xarelto which was stopped on October
30.”  (Exhibit M.)
 
Thus, because Providence was
clearly aware that Plaintiff had been off his Xarelto medication since October
30, Gelis has met his burden of persuasion/production of evidence to show that
Plaintiff will be unable to establish that Plaintiff relied on the altered Soma
medical records (which obscured his cessation of Xarelto) to his detriment.  
 
As such, Gelis has shifted the
burden of production to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as
to the 4th element of the cause of action -- actual and
justifiable reliance.  
 
b.     Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff disputes that it was
Plaintiff who told the Providence emergency department about the esophagogastroduodenoscopy
(EGD) or that he stopped taking his Xarelto medication, arguing that Plaintiff
was in no condition to tell the emergency department staff about his condition,
as he was unable to even sign his name following the EGD procedure and
complications.  (See Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement No. 13.)  In support, Plaintiff
points to Plaintiff’s medical records from Soma Surgery Center.  (McCoy Decl., Ex. D.)  
 
As a threshold matter, the Court sustains Gelis’ objections to those
medical records, as they have not been properly authenticated, and therefore
they have no evidentiary value.
 
Nevertheless, there is no indication in the cited Soma Surgery Center
medical records that Plaintiff was unable to communicate with the Providence
emergency department staff following his EGD procedure at Soma.  To the contrary, the cited medical records
indicate, “Immediately after the procedure the patient was awake and alert with
a soft non tender abdomen, lack of any type of pain, breathing normally and
with stable blood pressure, pulse and temperature.”  The records further indicate that Plaintiff
was given oral and written instructions and “Patient verbalizes understanding
of these instructions and agrees to comply with them.”  (McCoy Decl., Ex. D.)
 
But even if Plaintiff were unable to personally communicate with the
Providence Emergency Department, the fact remains that Plaintiff’s November 4,
2020 Providence medical records state Plaintiff underwent an EGD procedure and
had stopped taking his Xarelto medication on October 30.  Thus, regardless of who communicated the
information to Providence, Providence was clearly aware during Plaintiff’s
November 4 visit that Plaintiff had stopped taking his Xarelto medication as of
October 30.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff indicates in Plaintiff’s opposition to Undisputed
Material Fact No. 4, “Defendants further failed to provide records to the
emergency department at Providence Hospital.” 
Therefore, Providence knew Plaintiff had stopped his Xarelto and did not
have Plaintiff’s health care records suggesting otherwise.  This further underscores that the altered
Soma medical records were not relied upon and did not play a part in affecting
Plaintiff’s subsequent care at Providence.
 
Plaintiff has also not provided any evidence indicating that the
altered Soma medical records impacted any of Plaintiff’s care after November 4,
2020.
 
Plaintiff also cites to the deposition transcripts of Dr. Prokupek and
of Defendant Gelis in opposition to Undisputed Material Fact No. 15.  However, Gelis’s cited testimony that he did
not know where Millennium was located and Dr. Prokupek’s cited testimony that
he is 100% owner of the company do not demonstrate that Plaintiff relied on the
altered medical records to his detriment.
 
As such, Plaintiff has not met his burden of production to create a
triable issue of material fact that Plaintiff relied upon the altered health
care records to his detriment.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Gelis’s Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.  Gelis has demonstrated that Plaintiff will be
unable to prevail on intentional misrepresentation cause of action against Gelis
and Plaintiff’s proffered evidence is insufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden
of production to make a prima facie showing of the existence of triable issues
of material fact.  
 
Further, the Court will enter the proposed Judgment in favor of
Gelis.  
 
Gelis shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  April 18, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


