 Case Number:  23SMCV01071    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01071




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff EMRES II South Carolina, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 
Declaration
     of Stefan Baugh

 
MOTION
 
This case arises from the alleged breach of a purchase and sale
agreement for real property in South Carolina. 
The seller, Plaintiff EMRES II South Carolina, LLC (“Plaintiff”) has
sought liquidated damages from purchaser, Defendant Spain Companies, LLC
(“Defendant”) pursuant to the terms of the agreement.  
 
Plaintiff now moves for summary judgment.  Plaintiff’s motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
1.     BREACH OF CONTRACT
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
On April 18, 2022, Plaintiff and Defendant executed a Purchase and
Sale Agreement for Plaintiff to sell and Defendant to purchase real property
for a purchase price of $71,500,000.00. 
(Baugh Decl. ¶¶ 2-3 and Ex. A.) 
Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Defendant was to pay Plaintiff a
security deposit of $400,000.00 within three business days of April 18.  (Ex. A at ¶ 2.2.1.)
 
On April 21, 2022, Defendant emailed Plaintiff, indicating it no
longer intended to move forward with the transaction.  (Baugh Decl. ¶ 4 and Ex. B.)  Consistent with Defendant’s email, Defendant
has not paid the deposit or purchased the property.  (Baugh Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)
 
Plaintiff “was ready, willing, and able to sell the Property to Spain
Companies.”  (Id. ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff is now entertaining other offers on the property, all of
them less than the $71.5 million contractual purchase price.  (Id. at ¶ 8.)  Defendant has now submitted a new offer to
purchase the property for $60 million.  (Ibid.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has established the existence of a contract,
Plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach, and
resulting damages.
 
Section 11.1 of the agreement provides:
 
11.1 Purchaser Default
If Purchaser shall fail or refuse to purchase the Property in violation of
Purchaser’s obligations hereunder for any reason other than a default by Seller
under this Agreement, or shall otherwise be in default of its obligations
hereunder, Seller sole remedy, shall be the right to terminate this Agreement
and retain the full amount of the Deposit and all interest earned thereon.
Seller and Purchaser acknowledge and agree that (a) it would be extremely
difficult to accurately determine the amount of damages suffered by Seller as a
result of Purchaser’s default hereunder; (b) the Deposit constitutes a fair and
reasonable amount to be received by Seller as agreed and liquidated damages for
Purchaser’s default under this Agreement, as well as a fair, reasonable and
customary amount to be paid as liquidated damages to a seller in an arm’s
length transaction of the type contemplated by this Agreement upon a default by
the purchaser thereunder; and (c) receipt by Seller of the Deposit upon
Purchaser’s default hereunder shall not constitute a penalty or a forfeiture.
 
(Ex. A at ¶ 11.1.)
 
            Although Defendant has not yet paid
the security deposit and the contractual terms provide that the seller shall
“retain” the security deposit, the appellate court has held that provisions
permitting a party to “retain” a deposit apply equally to deposits that have
not yet been paid.  (United Sav. &
Loan Assn. v. Reeder Dev. Corp. (1976) 57 Cal.App.3d 282, 294–295.)
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff has
demonstrated that Defendant owes Plaintiff the $400,000 security deposit, plus
interest thereon.
 
            Section 12.3 of the agreement
provides, “12.3 Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed and
enforced in accordance with the internal laws of the State of South Carolina.”  (Ex. A at ¶ 12.3.)  South Carolina law provides for an 8.75%
interest rate.  (See S.C. Code Ann. §
34-31-20(A).)
 
            As such, Plaintiff has demonstrated
entitlement to 8.75% interest on the $400,000.
 
            Section
11.3 of the agreement further provides:
 
11.3 Attorneys’ Fees.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event that
either Seller or Purchaser, as the case may be, shall bring a lawsuit against
the other party to enforce their respective rights under Sections 11.1 and 11.2,
above, the losing party shall pay the prevailing party’s costs and expenses
incurred in connection with such litigation, including without limitation
reasonable attorneys’ fees. The “prevailing party” shall be determined by the
court hearing such matter from which no appeal may be taken.
 
(Ex.
A at ¶ 11.3.)  Therefore, Plaintiff is
also entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.  Plaintiff has demonstrated its prima facie
case that Defendant breached the agreement and Plaintiff is entitled to recover
from Defendant the $400,000 security deposit as liquidated damages, plus
interest thereon at a rate of 8.75%, and reasonable attorneys’ fees.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
Further, Plaintiff shall file a proposed Judgment in conformity with
the Court’s ruling on or before May 16, 2024. 
Accordingly, the Court sets an Order to Show Cause re Entry of Judgment
on June 6, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207. 
  
 
 
 
DATED:  April 18, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court