 Case Number:  22AHCV01198    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER RE:
MOTION TO TAX COSTSI.        INTRODUCTION           Plaintiff Franses Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”)
brought this action against Defendant City of Pasadena (“Defendant”) on
December 1, 2022, alleging injury while riding an e-scooter on a public street.
On March 18, 2024, Defendant served an Offer to Compromise, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 998, in the amount of zero dollars, on Plaintiff.
(Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike and/or Tax Costs, p. 3.) Plaintiff did not accept
the offer and Defendant moved for a trial continuance. (Plaintiff’s Motion to
Strike and/or Tax Costs, p. 3–4.) Defendant then filed a motion for summary
judgment, which the Court granted on July 11, 2024. (Plaintiff’s Motion to
Strike and/or Tax Costs, p. 4.)          Defendant filed its Memorandum of
Costs seeking recovery of $54,476.03. (Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike and/or Tax
Costs, p. 4.) Plaintiff now seeks to strike and/or tax costs in Defendant’s
Memorandum. II.      LEGAL
STANDARD          Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b)
provides that a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover
costs. Section 1033.5 itemizes those costs that are recoverable.           California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(b)(1) requires that
a motion to tax costs musts be filed within 15 days of service of the cost
bill. Rule 3.1700(b)(2) provides, “Unless objection is made to the entire cost
memorandum, the motion to strike or tax costs must refer to each item objected
to by the same number and appear in the same order as the corresponding cost
item claimed on the memorandum of costs and must state why the item is
objectionable.” ¿Technically, a motion to strike challenges the entire costs
bill whereas a motion to tax challenges particular¿items or amounts.¿             “If the items in a cost memorandum appear proper, the
verified memorandum is prima facie evidence the expenses were necessarily
incurred by the ‘prevailing party.’ [Citation.] To controvert this evidence,
the burden is on the objecting party to present evidence showing the contrary.
[Ibid.]” (Whatley-Miller v. Cooper (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1103, 1115.)
“[A] party’s ‘mere statements in the points and authorities accompanying its
notice of motion to strike cost bill and the declaration of its counsel are
insufficient to rebut the prima facie showing [that the costs were necessarily
incurred].’” (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1266.)III.     ANALYSIS          Plaintiff moves the court to tax Defendant’s memorandum of
costs on the grounds that: (1) the court did not order recovery of expert costs
or attorney fees, (2) Defendant’s Offer to Compromise was made in bad faith,
was unreasonable, and does not reflect the substantial damage to Plaintiff. (Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike and/or Tax
Costs, p. 4–8.) Plaintiff argues that the court should tax the costs for
expert fees, attorney fees, and costs labeled “Other” in their entirety. (Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike and/or Tax Costs,
p. 9–10.) Plaintiff also argues that Defendant cannot recover the full
amount of their requested deposition costs and service of process costs. (Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike and/or Tax
Costs, pp. 8–9.)           In its opposition,
Defendant argues that the court has the discretion to award expert fees, and
reasonableness of an Offer to Compromise is just one factor the court can
consider. (Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax Costs, pp. 4–5.) Defendant
also argues that its Offer to Compromise was reasonable under the
circumstances, and Plaintiff overlooks that waiving costs is a considerable
sum. (Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax Costs, pp. 5–6.)          In reply, Plaintiff argues that the Offer to Compromise was
unreasonable because Defendant served it on Plaintiff a little over two weeks
before serving its motion for summary judgment. (Reply to Opposition to Motion
to Strike or Tax Costs, p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that she had no knowledge that
a motion for summary judgment would be forthcoming, and Defendant did not make
efforts to schedule a mediation to avoid incurring expert expenses. (Reply to
Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax Costs, p. 3.)           Plaintiff’s core contention is that Defendant’s Offer to
Compromise was unreasonable, rendering attorney fees and expert witness fees
unrecoverable. An Offer to Compromise must be made in good faith to be valid,
which requires that the offer be “realistically reasonable under the circumstances
of the case.” (Jones v. Dumrichob, supra, 63 Cal.App.4th 1258 at p.
1262 [internal citations omitted.].) Reasonableness is measured by a
determination that the offer represents a reasonable prediction of both
parties’ standing after trial. (See Whatley-Miller v. Cooper (2013) 212
Ca.App.4th 1103, 1112 [“whether the offer represents a reasonable prediction of
the amount of money, if any, defendant would have to pay plaintiff following a
trial, discounted by an appropriate factor for receipt of money by plaintiff
before trial, all premised upon information that was known or reasonably should
have been known to the defendant.” (internal citation omitted).].) “If the
offer is found reasonable by the first test, it must then satisfy a second
test: whether [plaintiff's] information was known or reasonably should have
been known to [defendant]. This second test is necessary because the section
998 mechanism works only where the offeree has reason to know the offer is a
reasonable one.” (Id. at p. 1113.)          The timing of the Offer to Compromise does not weigh
against its reasonableness. Defendant’s later filing of a motion for summary
judgment does not affect Plaintiff’s ability to examine and evaluate the Offer
to Compromise at the time it was made. Whether the offer is reasonable “depends
upon the information available to the parties as of the date the offer was
served.” (Westamerica Bank v. MBG Industries, Inc. (2007) 158
Cal.App.4th 109, 130.) Defendant served Plaintiff its Offer to Compromise on
March 18, 2024. (Reply to Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax Costs, p. 2.)
The City then served its motion for summary judgment on April 4, 2024, with a
hearing date of July 19, 2024. (Reply to Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax
Costs, p. 3.) Plaintiff was on notice of Defendant’s possible defenses by its
Answer, filed on January 5, 2023—over a year before Defendant filed the motion
for summary judgment. This is a reasonable amount of time for Plaintiff to
conduct discovery, assess the merits of the case, and intelligently consider an
Offer to Compromise.            Defendant’s likelihood of prevailing at the time the Offer
to Compromise was made also weighs toward reasonableness of the Offer to
Compromise. The Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. As the Jones
v. Dumrichob court noted, “we are not obliged to ignore the reality that
respondent prevailed at trial. In fact, the trial result itself constitutes
prima facie evidence that the offer was reasonable.” (Jones v. Dumrichob,
supra, 63 Cal.App.4th at p. 1264. The fact that Defendant prevailed on
its motion for summary judgment indicates that there was a high likelihood it would
prevail, including at the time the Offer was made.          Finally, Plaintiff argues that the Offer to Compromise
amount weighs against reasonableness given the circumstances of the case and
the high cost of litigation. As the Jones v. Dumrichob court noted, “Appellants
overlook the fact that in offering to have judgment entered against him,
respondent was also waiving his considerable cost bill against which
appellants' likelihood of success in the case must have been weighed.” (Jones
v. Dumrichob, supra, 63 Cal.App.4th at p.1263. Though the Offer to
Compromise was for zero dollars, the costs of litigation at the end of a trial
would be a substantial sum. Considering
the foregoing, the court assesses Plaintiff’s remaining arguments to tax costs
below.            Item 4 – Deposition Costs                                $ 17,467.92          Deposition costs are recoverable. (Code Civ. Proc., §1033.5,
subd. (a)(3).) Defendant’s Memorandum of Costs tabulates deposition costs as
$19,757.92. Plaintiff argues that
Defendant is not entitled to costs for taking the depositions of Plaintiff’s
expert witnesses, because those costs would be expert fees, voided due to their
bad faith Offer to Compromise. Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5,
subdivision (a)(3), explicitly identifies “taking . . . necessary depositions”
as recoverable. (Code Civ. Proc., §1033.5, subd. (a)(3).) Plaintiffs provide no
evidence that Defendant’s listed fees for taking deposition of
witnesses—even expert ones—were not incurred or wrongly identified.However,
Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendant’s deposition cancellation costs,
totaling $1,890, were caused by Defendant’s Counsel’s own fault. (Declaration
of Andrea Posey, ¶ 4.) Defendant concedes that one of those costs is not
recoverable due to fault, and additionally identified a tabulation error.
(Declaration of Erin Dunkerly, ¶¶ 4–5.) However, the remaining two
cancellations of $550 were in response to the court’s tentative order to grant
summary judgment. (Declaration of Erin Dunkerly, ¶ 4.) Defendant is entitled to
those costs. Defendant’s adjusted cost for depositions is $17,467.92.            Item 5 – Service of Process                              $ 2,658.11              Costs actually incurred in effecting service are
recoverable. (Code Civ. Proc., §1033.5, subd. (a)(4).) Plaintiff does not
contest these fees in her Reply.  Item
8 – Witness Fees                                      $ 30,250.00           Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (b)(1), provides for recovery of expert
witness fees as costs. As discussed above, expert witness fees are recoverable
in this case. Plaintiff argues that expert witness Dr. Bijan Zardouz’s 30 hours
for record review are unreasonable when compared to time spent by Plaintiff’s
expert witnesses and Defendant’s other expert witnesses reviewing records.
(Reply to Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax Costs, p. 4.) However,
Plaintiff does not provide evidence supporting this claim. As such, Plaintiff
has not met her burden to show this cost was not necessarily incurred.           Item 10 – Attorney fees                                    $
0.00          Code of Civil Procedure section1033.5, subdivision (a)(10)
provides for the recovery of attorney’s fees, when authorized by contact,
statute, or law. As discussed above, attorney fees are recoverable in this
case. However, Defendant’s Memorandum of Costs lists this amount as “pending.”
(Memorandum of Costs, p. 1; Motion to Strike and/or Tax Costs, p. 2.)
Furthermore, Defendant does not include this line item in their reply. Thus,
the court awards $0 in attorney fees.                      Item 16 – Other                                               $ 0.00           Defendant’s
Memorandum of Costs identified costs under line 16 titled “Other,” in the
amount of $4,468.11. (Memorandum of Costs, p.1.) Plaintiff sought to tax these
costs entirely because there was no description or supporting documentation of
those costs. (Motion to Strike and/or Tax Costs, pp. 9–10.) Defendant
identified a clerical error, and instead requested costs for service of
process, as discussed above, and withdrew the remaining costs in this line
item. (Declaration of Erin Dunkerly, ¶ 6.) The Court accordingly adjusts this
cost to $0.00. IV.     ORDER          The instant motion is DENIED.
Defendant is awarded their adjusted Memorandum of Costs, totaling $50,376.03.          Dated:  September 25, 2024                                                                                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                    