  Case Number:  22AHCV01015    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANTS’  MOTION TO EXPUNGE MECHANIC’S LIENI.         INTRODUCTION  Plaintiff Bruce Wayne  Miller dba Glowtex Builders (Plaintiff) alleges  that Defendants Stefan Kazachki and Georgi Stefanov Kazachki (Defendants)  entered into a written construction contract with Plaintiff for the real  property located at 325 Camino Verde, South Pasadena, California 91030 (the  Subject Property).  Plaintiff alleges  that Defendant Georgi Stefanov Kazachki is the owner of the Subject Property and that Defendants failed to pay  Plaintiff all sums due upon completion of the work and has brought causes of  action for breach of contract, enforcement of mechanic’s lien, interest  payments, and unjust enrichment.   On March 27, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to expunge the mechanic’s  lien and for award of attorney’s fees.                Defendants’ motion to expunge mechanic’s lien  is DENIED. The court also determines that Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s  fees under Civil Code section 8488(c) in an amount to be determined at a later  hearing   II.        LEGAL STANDARD A claim of mechanic’s lien shall be  in a verified written statement and shall include, among other things, “[a]  proof of service affidavit completed and signed by the person serving a copy of  the claim of mechanics lien” that shows “the date, place, and manner of  service, and facts showing that the service was made in accordance with this  section.” (Civ. Code, § 8416 subd. (a)(7).) Service shall be made “by  registered mail, certified mail, or first-class mail, evidenced by a  certificate of mailing, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or reputed  owner at the owner's or reputed owner's residence or place of business address  or at the address shown by the building permit on file with the authority  issuing a building permit for the work.” (Civ. Code, § 8416 subd. (c)(1).)  “Service of the copy of the claim of mechanics lien by registered mail,  certified mail, or first-class mail, evidenced by a certificate of mailing,  postage prepaid, is complete at the time of the deposit of that first-class,  certified, or registered mail.” (Civ. Code, § 8416, subd. (d).) Delivery is not  required to enact proper service of process so long as “the procedures  implementing the constitutional requirements of due process were followed  giving assurance that service really had been made.” (West v. West  (1979) 92 Cal.App.3d 120, 124 (West).) When proof of service is  sufficient, it is “of no legal import that a party actually may not have  received notice.” (Oats v. Oats (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 416, 420.)  The  petitioner has the burden of producing evidence as to the issue of compliance  with the service and date for hearing requirements of a mechanic’s lien. (Civ.  Code, § 8488, subd. (a).)    Civil Code section 8488(c) states  that “[t]he prevailing party is entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.”      III.      ANALYSIS             Defendants  move for an order expunging the mechanic’s lien on the Subject Property. Defendants  also seek attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $3,600.00.   Plaintiff served Defendant Georgi  Stefanov Kazachki with a verified written statement of the mechanic’s lien on  August 9, 2022, by first class certified mail. The proof of service includes  the date, place, and manner of service, as well as facts indicating compliance  with Civil Code section 8416. (Amend. Compl., Exh. B.) Plaintiffs have alleged  that Defendant Georgi Stefanov Kazachki is the owner of the Subject Property.  The mechanic’s lien lists Defendant Georgi Stefanov Kazachki as the sole owner  or reputed owner of the Subject Property, although the amended complaint is  unclear as to whether Stefan Kazachki is also an owner of the Subject Property.  (Amend. Compl. Exh. B.; Amend. Compl. pp. 2, 5 ¶¶ 4, 20.)    Defendants allege that service upon  them was improper because it was not received and was instead returned to  sender by the US Postal Service. (Mot. Exp. Mech. Lien, p. 7 ¶ 2.) However,  receipt of service is not required for service by mail to be proper. Service is  instead complete as of the time of deposit. (Civ. Code, § 8416, subd. (d); West,  supra, 92 Cal.App.3d at p. 124.) Plaintiff has provided evidence that  service was properly mailed to the Subject Property to serve Defendant Georgi  Stefanov Kazachki. (Amend. Compl., Exh. B.)   Defendants further allege that the  address to which service was mailed was incorrect and that service was  therefore improper. (Reply to Opp. To Mot. Exp. Mech. Lien, p. 4 ¶¶ 1-2.)  However, Defendants have failed to provide any declarations or other evidence  showing that this address was incorrect or that service was otherwise improper.  Without proper evidence establishing that the Subject Property is not the  residence or place of business address of Defendant Georgi Stefanov Kazachki,  Defendants have failed to carry their initial burden of proof as to the issue  of compliance with service requirements.   Therefore, the motion fails.   IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER Petitioner’s motion to expunge  mechanic’s lien is DENIED.  The court also determines that  Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees under Civil Code § 8488(c) in an  amount to be determined at a later hearing.                       Dated:  September 25, 2024                                                                                                                                                                         JARED  D. MOSES  JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART AND DENYING IN PART DEFENDANTS' MOTION TO STRIKEI.        INTRODUCTIONPlaintiff  Bruce Wayne Miller dba Glowtex Builders (Plaintiff) alleges that Defendants Stefan Kazachki, Georgi Stefanov Kazachki, and  Green Earth Building, LLC (collectively, Defendants)[1] entered into a written  construction contract with Plaintiff for the real property located at 325  Camino Verde, South Pasadena, California 91030 (the Subject Property).  Plaintiff alleges that Georgi is the owner of the Subject Property and that  Defendants failed to pay Plaintiff all sums due upon completion of the work. Plaintiff  has brought causes of action for breach of contract, enforcement of mechanic’s  lien, common cause, and unjust enrichment.          On December 4, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to strike  portions of the first amended complaint. No opposition was filed. II.      LEGAL  STANDARD          Code of Civil Procedure section 436 provides: “The court  may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:(a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.(b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this  state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” Grounds for the motion must  appear on the face of the pleading or from any matter of which the court is  required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §437.) An irrelevant matter  is any of “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim  or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent  to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense. (3) A  demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the  complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5 requires that, before filing a motion to  strike, the moving party shall meet and confer¿in person or by telephone¿with  the party who filed the pleading that is subject of the motion for the purpose  of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer.  The parties are to meet and  confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(2).)  The party must also file and serve a  declaration detailing the meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (a)(3).)  III.     ANALYSIS          Defendants ask the court to strike portions of the first  amended complaint on the grounds that they contain irrelevant, false, or  improper matter or are not drawn in conformity with the laws of California.                     1. Meet and Confer RequirementDefendants  submitted a declaration of their attorney, Katharine Miller, stating that  Defendants commenced the meet and confer process but did not receive a response  from Plaintiff. (Miller Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds that a good faith attempt  to meet and confer was made, satisfying the meet and confer requirement.                     2. Motion to Strike          Defendants seek to strike allegations regarding paragraphs  9, 10, 13, and 18 of the amended complaint, as well as paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4,  8, and 9 of the prayer for relief and the fourth cause of action in its  entirety.                              Paragraphs 9, 10, 13, and 18Defendants  allege that allegations within paragraphs 9, 10, 13, and 18 of the amended  complaint are irrelevant or contrary to Exhibit A of the amended complaint,  which is the construction contract between Plaintiff and Defendants. (Motion to  Strike, p. 2)Paragraph  13 concerns the formation of the contract between Plaintiff and Defendants,  stating that Stefan entered into the agreement on behalf of himself and Georgi.  (Amend. Compl., p. 4 ¶ 13.) Defendants allege that Paragraph 13 is irrelevant  and should be stricken because the contract itself is incorporated into the  amended complaint and the prior paragraph already described the existence of  the contract. Paragraph 13 of the amended complaint does not merely restate the  existence of the contract, but describes that Stefan entered into the contract for  himself and as an agent for Georgi, an allegation not described in the contract  or in prior paragraphs. It is relevant and therefore is not stricken.Paragraphs  9 and 10 of the amended complaint are not contrary to the exhibits. Paragraphs 9  and 10 allege amendments or extra work orders added to the construction  contract. (Amend Compl., p. 3 ¶¶ 9-10.) Under the contract, both amendments and  extra work orders must be signed and in writing. Plaintiff has not submitted  evidence of signed writings altering the contract. (Amend Compl., Exhb. A.) However,  this is insufficient to establish that Plaintiff’s allegations are false, as  the creation of extra work orders is not an unusual circumstance. Accordingly, Paragraphs  9 and 10 of the amended complaint are not contrary to the exhibits and are not  stricken.Paragraph  18 of the amended complaint is contrary to the exhibits. Paragraph 18 alleges  that the contract allows for attorney’s fees and expert fees incurred to pursue  the claim. (Amend Compl., p. 5 ¶ 18.) The contract contains no provisions  concerning attorney’s fees or expert fees in circumstances of litigation.  (Amend Compl., Exhb. A.) Plaintiff has not alleged that the parties amended the  contract to include attorney’s fees or expert fees. Accordingly, Paragraph 18  of the amended complaint is contrary to the exhibits and is stricken.          The Prayer for ReliefDefendants  seek to strike portions of the introductory statement and paragraphs 1 and 4 of  the prayer for relief as being contrary to the contract. These portions concern  Plaintiff’s prayer for interest. The contract contains no provisions concerning  interest. (Amend Compl., Exhb. A.) However, prejudgment interest is provided  for by law. Accordingly, these portions of the prayer for relief are not  stricken.Defendants  seek to strike portions of the paragraphs 2 and 3 of the prayer for relief as  being contrary to the contract. These portions concern Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney’s  fees. The contract contains no provisions concerning attorney’s fees. (Amend  Compl., Exhb. A.) Accordingly, these portions of the prayer for relief are  stricken. Defendants  also seek to strike paragraph 8 of the prayer for relief because it requests damages  under a stop notice, which the amended complaint otherwise lacks allegations  about. Because the amended complaint lacks allegations about a stop notice,  paragraph 8 of the prayer for relief is irrelevant and is stricken.          The Fourth Cause of ActionDefendants  seek to strike the fourth cause of action, for unjust enrichment, in its  entirety. Defendant previously demurred to this cause of action and the Court  sustained the demurrer. Therefore, the fourth cause of action is stricken.IV.     CONCLUSION  AND ORDER          The  motion to strike is therefore GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.Defendants are ordered to give notice.                    Dated:  September 25, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT                                                                                                                                          