On May 5, 2022, Plaintiff Robert H. Feldman filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants 13012 Valleyheart Homeowners Association, Inc., Daryn Wood, Matthew Ferrone, and Millenium Air, Inc. for (1) Declaratory Relief; (2) Injunctive Relief; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Violation of Civil Code Section 4775; (5) Private Nuisance; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); (7) Trespass to Property; (8) Age Discrimination; (9) Discrimination based on Religious Status; (10) Discrimination based on Disability; (11) Battery; (12) Negligence; and (13) Negligence.  Plaintiff alleges that he owns a condominium unit and that Defendants, who are the HOA for Plaintiff’s property and its board members, failed to properly assess whether the property required repairs, failed to complete adequate repairs (for example, to gutters, water valves, garage lights, and security cameras), and retaliated against Plaintiff for his management complaints by, among other things, tampering with his air conditioning and exposing him to toxic chemicals.  Defendants Daryn Wood and Matthew Ferrone now seek to quash a subpoena issued to Verizon Wireless for their phone records for July-September 2020.  They argue that the phone records are only relevant to the HVAC incident that Plaintiff alleges took place on August 21, 2020; that Defendants voluntarily provided their phone records from this day; and that Plaintiff is not entitled to three months of phone records, which would violate Defendants’ privacy rights.  Alternatively, they seek for the Court to “narrow the scope of the subpoenas to the production of records one week before and one week after the alleged incident on August 21, 2020.”Plaintiff argues his request is narrowly tailored because “[a]lthough the date of the tampering itself was August 21, 2020, both Ferrone and Wood were in communication with Millennium before and after that date. Those communications are relevant to prove whether the tampering was a pre-planned, coordinated effort, and whether Ferrone and Wood engaged in acts designed to cover up the tampering after-the-fact.”Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)Defendants are correct that the subpoena invades their privacy rights due to being far overbroad in temporal scope.  As they contend, it is unreasonable to believe that a conspiracy about the AC unit was planned over three months.The Motion is granted—the Court temporally narrows the subpoena to August 16, 2021, to August 25, 2021.  The Court awards Defendants reduced sanctions in the amount of $1,250.  Moving parties to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 