Petition Request.  Petitioner J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC seeks approval to transfer $34,000 in exchange for Payee Gilbert Becerrada’s right to future payments totaling $127,769.40. Service/Filing Requirements.  Insurance Code § 10139.5(f)(2) provides for service of a petition not less than 20 days prior to the hearing.  Petitioner timely served the First Amended Petition on July 2, 2024.  Further, there was an initial notice to interested parties indicating the manner and time in which there could be responses to the Petition.  However, it is not clear whether there was notice that the Petition hearing was continued to August 2, 2024. Required Documents. The following documents are required to be served and filed not less than 20 days prior to the scheduled hearing on any application for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights.   A copy of the transferee's current and any prior petitions. A copy of the transfer agreement. A listing of each of the payee's dependents, together with each dependent's age. A copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of section 10136. A copy of the annuity contract, if available.A copy of any qualified assignment agreement, if available. A copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement, if available.Notification that any interested party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee's application, either in person or by counsel, by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing. Notification of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner in which and the time by which written responses to the application must be filed, which may not be less than 15 days after service of the transferee's notice, in order to be considered by the court. If the payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five years prior to the date of the transfer agreement, then the transferee shall provide notice to the payee's attorney of record at the time the structured settlement was created, if the attorney is licensed to practice in California, at the attorney's address on file with the State Bar of California. The notice shall be delivered by regular mail. Proof of service showing compliance with the notification requirements of this section.  (Ins. Code § 10139.5(f)(2).)Substantive Standard.  A direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective, and a structured settlement obligor is not required to make any payment, unless the transfer has been approved in advance in a final court order.  (Ins. Code § 10139.5(a).)  The Court must make written findings in the court order that: (1)  The transfer is in the best interests of the payee, taking into account the payee’s dependents. (2)  The payee has been advised in writing to seek independent professional advice and has either received that advice or knowingly waived it in writing.(3)  The transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with other sections of the code on structured settlement transfers (Ins. Code §§ 10136, 10138). (4)  The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or court order.   (5)  The payee reasonably understands the terms of the transfer agreement. (6)  The payee reasonably understands and does not wish to exercise the payee’s right to  cancel the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code § 10139.5(a).) Best interests of the payee.  Insurance Code § 10139.5(b) lists 15 factors for the Court to consider in determining whether the transfer would be fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interests.  When considering the totality of the circumstances, the Court should consider the following factors: (1)  The reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level. (2)  The stated purpose of the transfer. (3)  The payee’s financial and economic situation. (4)  The terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments. (5)  Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care and treatment. (6)  Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses. (7)  Whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses. (8)  Whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to meet the payee’s future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the payee’s dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee’s child support obligations, if any.  The payee shall disclose to the transferee and the court his or her court-ordered or child support or maintenance obligations for the court’s consideration. (9)  Whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable. (10)  Whether the payee completed previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction. (11)  Whether the transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years. (12)  Whether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or which were  dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years.(13)  Whether the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation. (14)  Whether the payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction.  The court may deny or defer ruling on the petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights if the court believes that the payee does not fully understand the proposed transaction and that independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction should be obtained by the payee. (15)  Any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines should be  considered in reviewing the transfer.(Ins. Code § 10139.5(b).) Payee Becerrada. The Petition states that when the original settlement was completed the future payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were not intended to pay for the future medical care and treatment relating to the incident that was the subject of the settlement.  In addition, the payment was not intended to provide for necessary living expenses.   Becerrada is 34 years old, married, and has one minor child.  He is currently unemployed.  He has completed one previous transaction, and one prior petition was dismissed.Becerrada states he is in financial distress and intends to use the money to buy a home.  Advice to seek professional advice.  Becerrada did not receive independent legal or financial advice regarding the proposed transaction.  He was advised to seek such advice and signed a waiver to that effect, which is attached to the Petition as Exhibit E. Disclosure form.  The disclosure form signed by Becerrada complies with the Insurance Code sections on structured settlement transfers, including listing the amount of payments transferred, the amount to be received, and the effective interest rate.  Becerrada has received and signed a copy of this form.  (Petition, Exh. B.) Contravention of statute or court order.  There does not appear to be any applicable statute or court order relating to this transaction. Reasonable understanding of terms of the transfer agreement. Becerrada seems to understand the terms of the transfer agreement and believes the current transaction is in his best interest.  (Becerrada Decl. ¶¶ 4, 13.)     Payee’s right to cancel.  Becerrada acknowledges the right to cancel but will not exercise this right.  (Becerrada Decl. ¶ 13.)The Court has considered the totality of the circumstances and finds that the transfer appears to be in Becerrada’s best interests.  If notice was provided that the Petition was continued to August 2, 2024, the Petition is granted.Petitioner to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic