 Case Number:  23STCV20055    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
PG Imtech of California, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV20055




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Kathleen M. Saylor, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant PG Imtech
of California
Responding Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Kathleen M. Saylor and Patricia A. Marrero
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff PG Imtech
of California, LLC sued Defendants Kathleen M. Saylor and Patricia A. Marrero,
asserting causes of action for (1) specific performance; and (2) breach of
written contract. Plaintiff, a commercial tenant of Defendants, alleges it
exercised an option in the lease to purchase the property from Defendants.
Plaintiff alleges the parties could not agree on a sales price and Plaintiff
seeks specific performance to purchase the property at the appraisal value
Plaintiff obtained.
 
On October 2, 2023, Saylor and Marrero
filed a cross-complaint against PG Imtech for declaratory relief regarding
interpretation of the appraisal provision in the option to purchase in the
lease.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“In moving for summary judgment, a
‘plaintiff . . . has met’ his ‘burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if’ he ‘has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling’ him ‘to judgment on that cause of action.’”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849 (as modified (July 11, 2001).)  The plaintiff “must present evidence that
would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any
underlying material fact more likely than not—otherwise, he would not be
entitled to judgment as a matter of law, but would have to
present his evidence to a trier of fact.” 
(Id., at 851, original italics.)
 
Once the plaintiff has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (CCP § 437c(p)(1).)  “There is a triable issue of material fact
if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find
the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance
with the applicable standard of proof.” 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  The defendant “shall not rely upon
the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(1).)
 
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on its
complaint for specific performance and breach of contract and on the
cross-complaint for declaratory relief.
“The standard elements of a claim for breach
of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “To obtain specific performance after a breach of
contract, a plaintiff must generally show: ‘(1) the inadequacy of his legal
remedy; (2) an underlying contract that is both reasonable and supported by
adequate consideration; (3) the existence of a mutuality of remedies; (4)
contractual terms which are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know
what it is to enforce; and (5) a substantial similarity of the requested
performance to that promised in the contract. [Citations.]’ ” (Real Estate
Analytics, LLC v. Vallas (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 463, 472 (internal
citations omitted.)
The facts of this action are largely
undisputed. Plaintiff began renting commercial property prior to Defendants’
purchase of the property. Defendants purchased the property for $1,544,000.00
subject to Plaintiff’s lease, which contains an option allowing Plaintiff to
purchase the property. 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff exercised the
option, triggering the appraisal process found in the lease. The lease
provides, 
If Lessee exercise this
option to purchase, the purchase price to be paid be Lessee shall be the fair
market valid of the Premises (“FMV”). The Parties shall attempt to agree on the
FMV within 15 days of the date of delivery to Lessor of the Notice described
above (the “Initial Negotiation Period”). If the Parties are unable to agree on
the FMV during the Initial Negotiation Period, then each Party shall hire an
independent MAI appraiser with at least five years of experience appraising
similar commercial/industrial properties within a 10-mile radius of the
Premises. The two appraisers shall complete appraisals of the Premises within
45 days of the end of the Initial Negotiation Period. On the 45th day after the
end of the Initial Negotiation Period, the Parties shall exchange copies of
their appraisals and shall then have five days (the “Second Negotiation
Period”) to attempt to agree on the FMV based on the two appraisals. If the
Parties are unable to agree on the FMV during the Second Negotiation Period, then
the Parties shall have the two appraisers select a third independent MAI
appraiser with the same qualifications set forth above to appraise the
Premises. The third appraiser's appraisal shall be completed within 45 days
after the end of the Second Negotiation Period. The average of the three
appraisals shall be deemed conclusively to be the FMV. The date upon which the
FMV is established pursuant to this Paragraph 52(e) shall be referred to herein
as the “Purchase Price Establishment Date.”
(Decl. Wolitski, Exh. B, Section (e) of
Option to Purchase.)
 
The parties could not agree on a
purchase price; instead, each obtained an appraisal from a professional
appraiser. Plaintiff’s appraiser valued the property at $1,100,000.00,
adjusting the price to reflect Plaintiff’s leasehold interest. Defendants’
appraiser valued the property at $1,820,000.00, removing Plaintiff’s leasehold
interest from the price. Thereafter, the parties did not proceed with the
appraisal process described above and did not obtain a third appraisal.
Instead, Plaintiff filed this suit. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants
breached the lease by obtaining an appraisal that did not value the property in
its “current” condition. Plaintiff argues that the lease describes “fair market
value” in the present tense, requiring the appraiser to consider the present
condition of the property, including the lease. In opposition, Defendants
argues that their appraisal correctly removed the lease from the valuation
because if the property was sold to Plaintiff, the lease would terminate. 
 
Defendants also assert that Plaintiff
breached the lease by refusing to comply with the appraisal procedures of the
lease to obtain a third appraisal.
 
On summary judgment, a Plaintiff must
prove that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. The Court finds that
Plaintiff has not done so here. The lease does not state whether the lease
itself must or must not be considered in determining the fair market value of
the property. Instead, it lays out a procedure that requires the parties to
obtain appraisals, the appraisers to obtain a third appraisal and eventually
average them to come to an agreement. The apparent purpose of this process is
to consider the various interests of the parties and average them to come to a
“fair value.” 
 
Plaintiff also does not provide
authority showing that its interpretation of these provisions is the correct
interpretation as a matter of law. Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ appraisal
improperly contemplates a “hypothetical” situation in which the lease no longer
exists. However, Plaintiff’s appraisal similarly contemplates a “hypothetical”
situation in which the property is being sold to a third party, ignoring the fact
that the property is being sold to the leaseholder. The Court cannot grant
summary judgment on these grounds.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 