  Case Number:  22STCV33483    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Christine Jones,


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV33483




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
 
County of Los Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena for Medical
Records
Moving Party: Defendants County of Los Angeles and
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO ENFORCE SUBPOENA
IS GRANTED.
 
DR. CHRISTI LINDSAY IS ORDERED TO
COMPLY WITH THE SUBPOENA WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
Defendants moves to enforce a subpoena served
on third-party Dr. Christi Lindsay on March 15, 2024. Plaintiff alleges a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress against Defendants
and identified Dr. Lindsay as a treating psychotherapist. As Plaintiff has
placed her mental condition at issue in this action, the documents sought are
relevant and discoverable. Neither Plaintiff nor Dr. Lindsay have opposed this
motion.
Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.


 