  Case Number:  BC665798    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO RECONSIDER THE NON-APPLICABILITY OF 27 CCR sec.
25721(d)(2)  
 
Consumer Advocacy
Group v. Gel Spice Company, et al., Case No. BC 665798
Hearing Date: May 22,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On June 16,
2022, Judge Beaudet denied Defendants’ motion that 27 California Code of
Regulations (“CCR”) sec. 25721(d)(2) was inapplicable in this case. 
          On May 7,
2024, after hearing argument, the Court adopted its tentative ruling to deny a
motion by Defendants to strike testimony concerning an ethnic subpopulation
theory CAG sought to offer at trial. In doing so, however, the Court noted that
the June 16, 2022 ruling – that seemingly caused this theory to be at issue -
was an interim order (the procedural basis for which was unclear) potentially
subject to reconsideration. The Court indicated it was not certain how the
ruling could be applied at trial and that on the merits appeared inconsistent
with relevant law and interpretive regulations.  
          On May 10,
2024, Defendants filed this motion for reconsideration. They bring it at the
suggestion of the Court, as noted above, pursuant to CCP sec. 1008(c) and LeFrancois
v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1107-1109; i.e., without a
showing of new facts, law or circumstances. As stated at the May 7, 2024
hearing, the hearing on this motion was scheduled before the ongoing trial is
concluded to allow CAG, if the motion were granted, to be able to still put on
evidence and or present its case in the context of sec. 25821(c)(2). In
summary, Defendants contend that sec. 25821(c)(2) is the exclusive and
mandatory provision for exposures from products such as the spices at issue
here as to reproductive toxicity.[1] See
p. 84 of Final Statement of Reasons (“FSOR”) by the Office of Environmental
Health Hazard Assessment (“OEHHA”) in Ex. D to Singh Decl.[2] They
contend sec. 25721(d)(2) – that is referenced in sec. 25821(c)(1) – pertains only
to environmental and occupational exposure to toxic chemicals, i.e., from air
or water.[3] (See
Environ. Law Found. v. Beech-Nut (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 307,
327-328 (applying (c)(2) to food items) They argue CAG is seeking to apply
(d)(2) because that would potentially avoid applying an average use of the
spices at issue by instead looking at the highest level of exposure in a
subpopulation.[4]
Defendants contend it is undisputed that the lead level from average use of the
spices falls within the safe harbor. 
          As
Defendants also argue, reading (d)(2) to apply to ethnic subpopulations would
be inconsistent with the language of (d)(2) pertaining to geographic
limitations and raise other issues of statutory interpretation, as well as to what
level of exposure Defendants should “reasonably anticipate” they are required
to stay below to not have to post a warning.[5] Further,
they argue that in any event there is insufficient data “available” to know
what to do; an issue Judge Beaudet did not address. 
          Finally,
Defendants argue that the proposed New York regulations to which CAG has referred
would not apply here or support CAG’s reading of California’s regulations. Specifically,
they contend that heath regulations, and food policy (governed by the FDA), are
different than the “right to know” focus of Prop. 65. Moreover, the New York
studies concern issues arising from postnatal exposures – an issue that is
excluded under Prop. 65. (See Mateel Pac. Justice Ctr. v. OEHHA (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 220, 231) In turn, they argue that the New York studies
in any event corroborate that reference to ethnic subpopulations does not materially
change the analysis in any event. Relatedly, they argue that the Court should
not rely on the testimony of Dr. DeSantis in this regard. 
          On May 15,
2024, CAG filed opposition to the motion. It makes three points: First, Defendants
misread the plain language of (d)(2) and the OEHHA interpretation in its FSOR. CAG
makes eight arguments – each of which will be discussed below. Second, it
addresses the issues raised before Judge Beaudet. CAG emphasizes that Judge
Beaudet did not address the separate issue of sufficiency of subpopulation
exposure data – which should be decided at the end of trial. Third, it argues this
motion is improper procedurally given Judge Beaudet already decided this issue.

          On May 17,
2024, Defendants filed their Reply. They reiterate that this motion was
prompted by the Court’s own sua sponte concern. They argue why CAG’s construction
of the statute is flawed and how analysis of heavier users of spices is already
factored into other regulations. Specifically, they contend that the
subpopulations identified in (d)(2), such as gender (women who may become
pregnant) and age (children), are physical differences that impact exposure to
a distinct group of people; not for purpose of considering subpopulations where
there are not distinct differences impacting exposure, as would be true along
lines of ethnicity or race. [6] In
addition, they raise concerns that would flow from the Court adopting CAG’s
ethnic subpopulation theory, including that a manufacturer or retailer could
not reasonably anticipate having to comply with regulations that do not
reference subpopulations on the basis of ethnicity or race. Finally, they raise
practicability concerns raised by CAG’s reading of the regulations. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          IRMO Oliverez
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248 holds that generally one trial
judge may not reconsider or overrule an interlocutory ruling of another trial
judge. There are three exceptions: 1. Where the judge who made the initial
ruling is “unavailable.” 2. When the facts have changed or when the judge has
considered further evidence and law. 3. If the first ruling was based on
inadvertence, mistake or fraud. Id., at 1249. Here, the Court
reconsiders the ruling under the second exception.[7] 
          The
undersigned has considered considerable evidence at trial that was not before
Judge Beaudet on the motion relevant to this issue: specifically, cross-examination
of both sides’ experts at trial (Barbara Petersen and Stacia DeSantis) concerning
how to measure lead and arsenic exposure that was premised upon application of
the factors in (c)(2), not the considerations in (d)(2).[8] In
addition, the undersigned reviewed the entire passage of the OEHHA
interpretation of these regulations, not just the portion quoted in the
briefing before Judge Beaudet seemingly favorable to CAG. While this bench
officer is reluctant to reconsider the decision of another judge, at the same
time, “’[f]orcing the parties to proceed where there is recognized error in the
case would result in an enormous waste of the court and the parties’ resources.
Le Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1107. See also Castner
v. First Nat’l. Bank of Anchorage, 278 F.2d 376, 380 (9th Cir.
1960) 
          Here, not now
recognizing the relevance of (c) (2), as opposed to (d)(2), would only compound
the issue by leading to further issues in applying (d)(2) at trial that could
be avoided. For example, the continuing discussion of the appropriateness of
consideration of an ethnic subpopulation for purposes of exposure – a critical
issue at trial - can instead properly be considered in connection with what
sort of averaging should be used under (c)(2), itself a complex assessment
under sec. 25803. Hence, this is not an instance where Defendants are seeking a
second “bite at the apple,” even if they set up the issue at the suggestion of
the Court by bringing the motion.[9] 
          In
determining whether sec. 25721(d)(2) is applicable here it is necessary to
consider how it fits into the other related regulations of which it is a part.
It cannot be read in isolation. (See Los Angeles Co. Dependency Attorneys
v. Dept. General Services (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 230, 237) Hence,
as provided for by sec. 25801, sec. 25821(c) is critical where the focus of
trial concerns the lower-level reproductive toxicity levels, not the higher cancer
levels.[10]  It is sec. 25821 which determines what part of
sec. 25721 to apply, if at all. Sec. 25821 sets forth the measure for
reproductive toxins. Sec. 25721 sets forth the measure for carcinogens. Sec.
25821(c)(1) provides the rules for carcinogens applies, namely, based on the
general or subpopulation. Sec. 25821(c)(2) provides the rules for reproductive
toxicity applies, namely, based on the average user.    
          As
referenced above, in its May 7, 2024 ruling, the Court indicated (c)(1) would not
apply here where it is (c)(2) that concerns exposure to reproductive toxins in consumer
products. If the Legislature intended consumer products to be covered by (c)(1)
there would be no reason for (c)(2). Reading (c)(1) to apply to products would
not make sense because then there would be different ways to define the level
of exposure – as OEHHA recognized at p. 84 of the FSOR. In turn, (d)(2), in its
references to air and water intake, and to subpopulations based on geography
closer to a source of exposure than people generally, seems to be referring to
environmental or occupational exposure to cancer producing chemicals, not
exposure to reproductive toxins from consumers ingesting food. None of the
experts have indicated that air and water intake would be relevant to analyzing
exposure levels to teratogens in the spices at issue here. This would also explain
why (c)(2) does not reference (d).[11]
          CAG’s
arguments are not to the contrary: 
          First, that
(c)(1) incorporates all subsections of (d) does not mean that (c)(2) is not
controlling as far as whether to refer to (d) at all as concerns consumer
products. (c)(2) would not be complementary to (d)(2), as CAG argues, where
(c)(2) applies a different measure than in (d) (except, as noted below, related
to carcinogens under (d)(4) (not relevant here given the lower level of exposure
for reproductive toxins)). Further, that (d)(1) concerns exposure reasonably
expected to affect the general population in any geographic area, whereas
(d)(2) concerns exposure reasonably expected to affect a certain subpopulation
of the general population in any geographic area indicates they are both
concerned with a geographic area as opposed to reference only to those
consumers who use a product - that is governed by (c)(2).     
          Second, that
(d)(2) does not expressly limit itself to geographic subpopulations does not
mean the Legislature intended other types of sub-population. If that was the
intent, it would not have reason to specify just by geography. The Court
disagrees that the language in (d)(2) suggests other sub-populations than those
mentioned should be considered. 
          Third, OEHHA’s
reference to use of subpopulations as concerns products in the FSOR was not
mistaken where it does so four times. The Court’s reading of these regulations
is consistent with OEHHA’s references to subpopulations concerning products.
Products may well be the cause of environmental or occupational exposure, the
subject of (d)(2), as in Di Pirro, supra, however, that is not also to
indicate products used by consumers are governed by (d)(2). Again, the focus of
(c)(2), as opposed to (d)(2), is to consider users, not the general population
or some part of it, as to do so would likely be more protective of those who in
fact use the products rather than just considering the general population (or
even a subpopulation), many of whom may not use the product. The Court’s
reading of these regulations is therefore that the focus will be more, not
less, protective of those who in fact are exposed to reproductive toxins. Thus,
significantly (c)(1) states that in determining levels for developmental toxicity
the rule for carcinogens applies, “unless more specific and scientifically
appropriate data are available.” Sec. (c)(2) then goes on to indicate more
specific and scientifically appropriate data available for consumer products.  
          Fourth, CAG’s
claim that reading (d)(2) to apply just to proximity to emissions from a
contaminating facility would make (d)(2) duplicative of (d)(1) does not consider
that they both are concerned only with exposure to “a chemical listed as
causing cancer.” The issue here is not chemicals causing cancer over time. The
concern is with reproductive toxins from use of consumer products (where again there
is a far lower level needed to require a warning than if it might cause cancer.)
 
          Fifth, consideration
of the use of average in (d)(4) for lifetime exposure to carcinogens,
notwithstanding that (c)(1) does not apply to teratogens because it is based upon
average in the general population as opposed to users, does not mean that (c)(2)
should not be applicable to consumer products when that is what it states. 
          Sixth, similarly
to the argument about no express limitations to subpopulations based on
geography, there is no express limitation in (d)(2) to ingestion of water or
air inhalation. However, again, there is no reason to infer other types of
exposure were intended to be covered by this subsection when (c)(2) already
addressed consumer products. 
          Seventh, that
a subpopulation may be the “only” impacted group should not be read to mean
that this is solely the basis for applying (d)(2). Again, the foregoing ignores
that any impact on a sub-population is not the issue about whether this section
applies. It is what sec. 25821 provides that determines if (d)(2) applies where
it is reproductive toxicity that is in question here. 
          Eighth, in
interpreting (d)(2), courts should not do so narrowly but instead consistently
with greater consumer protection. (People ex rel. Lundgren v. Superior Court
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 294) As discussed above, the Court does not find
the statute is ambiguous, nor is it construing it narrowly and believes that
the intent to provide protection of consumers is addressed already by way of
determining the degree of exposure through averaging more tailored to persons
who in fact ingest the food, as provided for under (c)(2). CAG’s belief that (d)(2)
is necessary to show the alleged higher level of exposure on certain ethnic
subpopulations fails to take account of that any such consideration would be by
way of determining who should be covered in determining the applicable mean. As
mentioned above, CAG fails to recognize that relying on data from average users
of spices rather than on a per capita basis from the general population would
be consistent with the protective purpose of Prop 65.    
          By this
ruling, the Court is not deciding how “average” use of spices is calculated for
purposes of (c)(2). The use of ethnic subpopulation data may be relevant for
those purposes, including determination of whether an arithmetic or geometric
mean is the most scientifically appropriate in this context. See Pirro,
supra (discussing various considerations in assessing how to determine
average exposure to users of a product in absence of statutory direction.) Those
issues will be decided, applying (c)(2), after hearing all the disputed evidence.
 As noted above, there is competing
expert testimony related to measuring exposure from spices and what use should
be made of data from specific groups (as has been studied in New York), as well
as whether the relevant population should be in California or nationally. The
Court denies, without prejudice, Defendants’ request that on this motion the
Court decide that use of ethnic subpopulation data does not apply to (c)(2) –
which is outside what Judge Beaudet decided. 
          Relatedly,
the Court is not here deciding that the Court is required to use the Home
Economic Research Report, the precursor to the National Health and Nutrition
Examination Survey (“NHANES”) data as opposed to other “available” data – as
Defendants contend. Hence, OEHHA’s admonition that the references in the regulations
to use of certain data such as NHANES is only an assumption “unless more
specific and scientifically appropriate data are available” remains at play. Again,
these were not issues which Judge Beaudet decided that the Court is asked now
to reconsider. 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court grants the motion for reconsideration. The Court will treat
the underlying motion as one in limine to not hear or consider evidence
relevant to applying 27 CCR sec. 25721(d)(2), as provided for by sec.
25821(c)(1), to determine whether lead and arsenic in the spices in question
here exceed the safe harbor level for purposes of reproductive toxicity,
instead the Court will consider evidence relevant to the different measure set
forth in sec. 25821(c)(2).[12] 
 


