


[1] Sec. 25721(d)(4) is also applicable to foods for
purposes of cancer. However, since the safe harbor for reproductive toxicity (under
sec. 25805(b)) is thirty times lower than for cancer (under sec. 25705(b)(1)), the
products would need to be below the levels in (c)(2) to not have to post a
warning. 


[2] “Subsection (c)(1) does not apply to exposures to
consumers, since that paragraph refers to the “average rate” of
intake…Accordingly, subsection (c)(2) of this section provides assumptions for
exposure resulting from the consumption of goods or consumer products…The
reasonably anticipated rate of consumption by the product user, not the per
capita consumption of the general population, is the standard. Data on the rate
of intake should be based on the data available for general categories of
products, such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture Home Economic Research
Report on Foods Commonly Eaten by Individuals; Amount per day and amount per
eating occasion, where available.”  
          OEHHA states also: “Paragraph (d)(2)
provides different assumptions for various subpopulations for the ingestion of
water and inhalation of air.” 


[3] Hence, the reference to geographical subpopulations
in (d)(2) is due to air or water near a contaminant source – which may be
higher than for parts of the population who are more distant from the site. 


[4] The “subpopulation” language is not in the other
sections. Hence, the Court does not need to address the competing readings of
the OEHHA interpretation that a subpopulation would need to have some wholly
different characteristic distinct from the other subpopulations to be
cognizable. 
          That said, the Court recognizes that CAG’s
position is that the issue is not one of considering exposure within an ethnic
subpopulation but what defendants should “reasonably expect.”


[5]
They also note that the use of a subpopulation to show exposure to women in Di
Pirro v. Bondo Corp. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 150 does not mean
(d)(2) should apply here to a consumer product because in that instance the
exposure was environmental and or occupational and hence (d)(2) was applicable
there.   
 


[6] Significantly, they now state: “Defendants do not
dispute that a valid subpopulation analysis can apply to consumer
products. Defendants dispute that CAG’s ethnic subpopulation theory can be
applied consistent with the regulations in a way that Plaintiff has
manufactured.”  


[7] Judge Beaudet is no longer assigned to hear this case;
however, she is not “unavailable,” as that term is defined, where she remains a
judge of this Court. Though Defendants contend CAG misrepresented the state of
the law to Judge Beaudet, the Court finds that the omission of the remaining
part of the interpretation (that was not favorable to CAG’s reading of the
regulation) would not amount to fraud. 


[8] The Court has also considered that the direct
testimony of Petersen (with whose methodology DeSantis finds fault) hinges on
averaging of exposure to lead (and arsenic) for purposes of reproductive
toxicity in determining whether Defendants’ spices fall within the statutory
safe harbor. 


[9] Notwithstanding the complaint by CAG as to the
fairness of the timing of hearing of the motion, the briefing on the motion was
negotiated among counsel to allow for an expedited hearing in order that a
decision could be made before trial was concluded. 
         Moreover, even if Defendants were
required to show new facts, law or circumstances, and the court were not itself
reconsidering the issue, here it is immaterial where the court is in any event only
doing so based on that same standard. 


[10] Sec. 25801 states in relevant part: “(a) The determination of whether a level
of exposure to a chemical known to the state to cause reproductive toxicity has
no observable effect for purposes of Section 25249.10(c) of the Act [Health and
Safety Code] shall be based on evidence and standards of comparable scientific
validity to the evidence and standards which form the scientific basis for the
listing of a chemical as known to the state to cause reproductive
toxicity.” 


[11] Given the foregoing, the Court does not need to
resort to considering the practical implications in determining how to read the
regulations, nor to New York’s proposed regulation. The Court has also not
considered other California trial court decisions applying these
regulations.   


[12] Defendants indicate that the original motion before
Judge Beaudet may have been intended as an in limine motion when she believed she
would be trying the case. 

