 Case Number:  SC126845    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT
-  BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS
ON PLAINTIFFS’ MOTIONS  TO SEVER AND IN
LIMINE No. 3  
 
Lackey, et al. v.
Zohoury, et al., Case No. SC126845
Hearing Date: May 22,
2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
MOTION TO SEVER 
 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On April
26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion under CCP sec. 379.5 to sever from the trial
scheduled for July 8, 2024 the following defendants: Westside Investment Group,
1647 Ocean Front, Michelle Hohman, Victor Westin and Hugh Farzaneh,
individually and dba Hugh Construction and Development. (Trial would not be
required as to 1647 Ocean Front and Westin whose default has been entered
already.) The basis for the motion is that these defendants are not subject to
the collateral estoppel order of Judge Epstein that prevents them from
challenging and deeming admitted certain factual conclusions of the Santa
Monica Rent Control Board. Plaintiffs contend that severance would resolve the
issue raised by Defendants that a jury would have difficulty sorting through
which findings applied to which parties and the potential prejudice resulting. Plaintiffs
rely on Anaya v. Superior Court (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 228, 233 as
support for severance where there is an issue of “cross-admissibility.” Further,
they indicate resolution of the trial against the parties they contend are
principally responsible may make a second trial unnecessary and thereby avoid
undue expense under CCP sec. 379.5. 
 
         
Relatedly, Plaintiffs request a finding tolling the five-year statute as
to the proposed severed defendants under CCP sec. 583.340 as it would be
impracticable to proceed to trial against those defendants.
 
          On May 9,
2024, Defendants Zohoury, Rahimi, SBZ, Sidma, Westside Investment Group and
Hohman filed opposition to the motion. (Separately represented Farzaneh did not
file opposition.) Opposing parties contend that the foregoing proposal only
further exacerbates the issues they contend result from the collateral estoppel
order. Specifically, they contend that holding a further trial does not promote
judicial economy, as required under CCP sec. 1048. For example, they assert
that if the first trial results in favor of defendants, they do not state what
would happen as far as the remaining defendants. They also argue Anaya
is distinguishable as that case involved the complexity of hundreds of
plaintiffs. Defendants continue to argue the real issue that needs to be solved
is the collateral estoppel order. 
 
          On May
15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Reply. They argue that the opposition ignores
that severance would assist defendants just as much as plaintiffs. They
continue to rely on Anaya and its holding supporting severance of certain
parties where that would assist the jury. They also address the concern if
defendants fail at trial that this might not avoid a second trial by
acknowledging that they would still likely be bound by the decision in the
first trial. In turn, the primary basis for opposition – the validity of the collateral
estoppel order – they assert has been litigated already. Finally, they note
that no opposition was asserted concerning tolling the five-ear statute. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
 
          CCP sec.
1048(b) provides in relevant part: “The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action…”[1] 
 
          Here, the
Court finds that holding a separate trial, if ultimately necessary, would
assist in avoiding prejudice to the severed defendants from the effect of the
collateral estoppel order – to which they are not bound. In turn, it will
benefit the remaining parties in avoiding potential confusion to the jury in
how to reach a verdict where some parties are bound by the order and others are
not bound by the order – consistent with the concern in Anaya related to
“cross-admissibility” of evidence about which this Court had already stated its
concern. 
 
          Further,
this order will likely reduce the time needed for trial as there will be no
reason for introduction of evidence as to the facts that are the subject of the
order. Though the Court recognizes that Defendants take the position that the
order will force them to put on more - not less - evidence than they would have
to absent the order, that is a different issue: The validity and applicability
of the collateral estoppel order at trial of the order has already been
litigated – both before Judge Epstein and the undersigned and the Court
addressed those issues in its order filed February 9, 2024. The Court will not
revisit that issue again now. It is not useful to repeat arguments the Court
has already rejected. 
 
          Moreover,
the results of the first trial – whoever prevails – is likely to avoid or
significantly reduce the issues that would then have to be decided. Any second
trial - at least as to two defendants - would also in any event be only a
default prove-up. 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 
          For these
reasons, the Court grants the motion. The Court severs the causes of action as
against defendants Westside Investment Group, 1647 Ocean Front, Michelle
Hohman, Victor Westin and Hugh Farzaneh, individually and dba Hugh Construction
and Development from the trial of those causes of action against the other
defendants. In addition, the Court tolls the 5-year statute from this date
through the entry of a final order resulting from the trial scheduled to start
July 8, 2024.   
 
 
MOTION IN LIMINE No. 3: 
 
          On April
24, 2024, the Court heard argument on this motion, after issuing a tentative
ruling (which it then adopted) and continued the motion to May 22, 2024. In
summary, the Court gave Defendants further opportunity to make their experts
that were the subject of this motion available for deposition – in view of the
earlier trial dates having been continued and depositions not then having been
taken -if they were properly designated. The Court has now received the reports
of both sides concerning this matter. Plaintiffs report that Defendants
continue to not make these persons available for deposition, in violation of
CCP sec. 2034.300(d). Defendants continue to contend that their earlier not
having made the experts available was not “unreasonable” and that the discovery
cut-off has expired. 
 
         It is
apparent that  Defendants are not
intending to make their experts available and instead rely on the position they
advanced prior to the last hearing. Neither side advises the Court concerning
what amended designations have now been served or which experts Defendants
intend to call at trial whose depositions Plaintiffs would then have a right to
take. Even if for sake of argument it was not unreasonable to make these experts
then available – which the Court does not now find – it is now unreasonable not
to do so if Defendants wish to call them as experts at trial. Plaintiffs have a
right to depose experts Defendants designated prior to testifying. Defendants
have had ample time to designate those who are to be called as experts at trial
and to make them available for deposition. In addition, the Court has given
them more time since the last hearing. In view of the foregoing, the Court has
no choice but to grant the motion.  


