  Case Number:  22STCV22547    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78RYON STEWART,Plaintiff,          vs.CITY OF LOS ANGELES,Defendant. Case No.: 22STCV22547 Hearing Date: February 23, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PLAINTIFF’S (PITCHESS) MOTION TO COMPEL DISCLOSURE OF PERSONNEL RECORDS Plaintiff’s motion to compel disclosure of personnel records is granted in part and denied in part.A date must be set for an in camera review of the items with a court reporter present. There also must be a protective order filed. Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for violations of the FEHA. Plaintiff Ryon Stewart alleges that he was employed as a police officer with the Los Angeles Police Department. During his employment, he contends that he was subject to discrimination and harassment due to his race and age. Plaintiff alleges other officers subjected him to differential treatment and belittled him due to his race and age. After reporting the harassment, Plaintiff was placed on paid suspension and suffered other retaliation.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn July 12, 2022, Plaintiff Ryon Stewart filed his Complaint against Defendant City of Los Angeles.DISCUSSIONObtaining discovery of peace officers’ personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery “must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the discovery,’ first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the pending litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the police agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause for the discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of relevance.” (Ibid.)¿  The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code section 1043(a).)¿ ¿ Penal Code section 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code section 832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id. section 832.5(b).) They “may be maintained either in the peace or custodial officer’s general personnel file or in a separate file designated by the department or agency.” (Ibid.)¿ ¿ The term “personnel records” is defined as follows:¿ ¿ “Personnel records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following:¿ ¿ (1) Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and employment history, home addresses, or similar information.¿ ¿ (2) Medical history.¿ ¿ (3) Election of employee benefits.¿ ¿ (4) Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline.¿ ¿ (5) Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties.¿ ¿ (6) Any other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.¿ ¿ (Penal Code section 832.8(a).)¿Under Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of these records by filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code section 1043(a).) Under Evidence Code section 1043, a Pitchess motion must include: (1) Identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.  (2) A description of the type of records or information sought.  (3) Affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information from the records.  (Evid. Code section 1043(b).) A court may not order disclosure of facts so remote as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit. (Evid. Code, section 1045(b)(2).) The “good cause” declaration must be sufficiently specific “to preclude the possibility of [the movant] simply casting about for any helpful information.” (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226 (Mooc).) An attorney declaration based upon information and belief may be used to evidence good cause in support of a Pitchess motion. (Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086.) The moving party need show only a “plausible factual foundation” for discovery—that is, a scenario of officer misconduct that might occur or could have occurred. (Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1025-1026.) All that is required is the presentation of a scenario that might have or could have occurred, which is a “relatively low threshold.” (Uybungco v. Superior Court (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048.)  Turning to the second step, if the court finds good cause, then an in-camera hearing must be held. (Slayton v. Superior Court (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 55, 60.) After personally examining the records in camera, the court shall order disclosure of peace officer personnel records that are “relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation.” (See Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (a); Mooc, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1226.) If disclosure is ordered, the court must also order that the disclosed information may not be used “for any purpose other than a court proceeding pursuant to applicable law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1045, subd. (e).)  Here, the Notice of Motion identifies the proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the governmental agency with custody and control of the records, and the officers whose records are sought, as required by subdivision (b)(1). The Notice of Motion also describes the records sought, as required by subdivision (b)(2). Plaintiff seeks 10 categories of documents:1. All materials related to LAPD Internal Affairs Investigation CF No. 21-00501.2. All materials related to the LAPD Internal Affairs Investigation CF No. 21-00364.3. Any investigation initiated as a result of Plaintiff’s lawsuit (22STCV22547).4. Any investigation initiated as a result of Plaintiff’s claim filed with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing on March 7, 2022.5. Any investigation initiated against Captain David Grimes, Sergeant II David Bambrick, Field Training Coordination Fletcher, Field Training Officer Sonia Monico, Field Training Officer Caressa Andreas, and Field Training Officer Giancarlo Ricchi as a result of citizen-only complaints of race/ethnicity discrimination, age discrimination, retaliation, and harassment from April 2015 forward.6. Any investigations initiated against Grimes, Bambrick, Fletcher, Monico, Andreas, and Ricchi as a result of Plaintiff’s complaints of race/ethnicity discrimination, age discrimination, retaliation, and harassment.7. All documents and/or materials containing prior citizen-only complaints of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation against Grimes, Bambrick, Fletcher, Monico, Andreas, and Ricchi as a result of complaints of race/ethnicity discrimination, age discrimination, retaliation, and harassment from April 2015 forward.8. All documents and/or materials containing prior non-citizen only complaints of discrimination, harassment, or retaliation against Grimes, Bambrick, Fletcher, Monico, Andreas, and Ricchi as a result of complaints of race/ethnicity discrimination, age discrimination, retaliation, and harassment. 9. All documents containing/pertaining to citizen-only allegations, reports, complaints, and/or investigations related in any way to Grimes, Bambrick, Fletcher, Monico, Andreas, and/or Ricchi: a) preparing/submitting reports that are false, misleading, and/or less than fully forthcoming; b) making statements that are false, misleading, and/or less than fully forthcoming; c) engaging/participating in alleged acts of planting evidence; d) engaging and/or participating in alleged acts of failing to report or covering up alleged violation(s) of department policy/law; e) using excessive force; and/or g) responding to complaints or making statements in connection with investigation(s) into complaint(s), in a manner that is false, misleading and/or less than fully forthcoming, from April 2020 forward10. All documents containing/pertaining to non-citizen only allegations, reports, complaints, and/or investigations related in any way to Grimes, Bambrick, Fletcher, Monico, Andreas, and/or Ricchi: a) preparing/submitting reports that are false, misleading, and/or less than fully forthcoming; b) making statements that are false, misleading, and/or less than fully forthcoming; c) engaging/participating in alleged acts of planting evidence; d) engaging and/or participating in alleged acts of failing to report or covering up alleged violation(s) of department policy/law; e) using excessive force; and/or g) responding to complaints or making statements in connection with investigation(s) into complaint(s), in a manner that is false, misleading and/or less than fully forthcoming, from April 2020 forwardPlaintiff also seeks investigation addenda and exhibits, witness interviews and/or statements, photos, correspondence, witness lists, rough notes, the investigator’s log, materials related to the disposition of the investigation, including but not limited to any disciplinary actions recommended or taken, any response by the accused, military endorsement(s), and any other follow-up or action. Additionally, Plaintiff seeks the “Investigative Package” associated with these investigations and all audio, video, and or digital recordings and transcripts of witness interviews or statements.Plaintiff’s counsel provides an affidavit stating good cause exists for discovery of the internal affairs investigations and related documents sought because the investigations arose from Plaintiff’s complaints of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation that are the subject of this lawsuit. (Oliver Decl., ¶20.) The records are relevant to show whether Plaintiff suffered discrimination, harassment, and retaliation during his employment with Defendant, whether Defendant ratified the conduct, whether Defendant’s witnesses lack credibility, whether Defendant’s employees engaged in similar conduct, and whether Defendant’s employees engaged in a pattern and practice of failing to prevent or correct FEHA violations. (Id., ¶¶22-24.)Defendant acknowledges that some of the documents Plaintiff seeks are likely subject to production under the Pitchess statutory framework. However, Defendant alleges that the categories requested are overbroad. Defendant argues that for each category, Plaintiff impermissibly seeks ancillary documents which would contain an investigating officer’s subjective impressions, conclusions, or analyses, which are protected from disclosure. Defendant cites Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1088 in support of its opposition. In Haggerty, a court found that portions of an Internal Affairs report stating the investigating officer’s subjective impressions of facts found during an investigation would not be admissible at trial or lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Haggerty at p.1088.) Although the conclusions of an investigating officer are not barred from discovery in civil proceedings, a court must undertake a threshold relevance analysis to determine whether the information should be disclosed. (Id at p. 1089.)Here, Plaintiff seeks documents such as an investigator’s log, rough notes, and correspondence which would likely contain investigating officers’ subjective impressions of the facts found during the investigation. Plaintiff’s good cause affidavit does not address how an investigating officer’s impressions would be relevant to this litigation. Therefore, the Court finds that there is no good cause for the discovery of the investigating officer’s subjective impressions, conclusions, or analyses apart from what is set forth in the final investigative report.  Requests Nos. 1 through 6These requests are granted with the following limitations.  The following items are to be produced for review by the Court: (1) the Complaint Form; (2) Complaint Adjudication Form, (3) Complaint Review Report; (4) Letter of Transmittal; (5) the Complaint Investigation (by which the Court means the final report of the investigation); (6) Any discipline recommended; (7) Any discipline imposed; (8) Audio/Video/transcripts of witness statements or interviews; (9) if #8 does not exist, any report documenting any witness statement; and (10) copies of any documents, photos or other items shown to any witness during the course of an interview. Categories 7 and 8Defendant argues that Categories 7 and 8 are impermissibly overbroad because they seek complaints about other types of discrimination, such as gender or disability discrimination, which are not material to Plaintiff’s claims based on race and age discrimination. Plaintiff’s good cause affidavit states the requested documents will be used to prove whether Defendant engaged in a pattern and practice of failing to prevent or correct FEHA violations. Evidence of other employees suffering discrimination may be relevant to FEHA violation claims depending on how closely related the evidence is to a plaintiff’s circumstance and theory of the case. (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy/Spastic Children's Foundation of Los Angeles and Ventura Counties (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 740, 767, citing Sprint/United Management Co. v. Mendelsohn (2008) 552 U.S. 379, 388.) Here, evidence of other complaints based on other types of discrimination would not be closely related to Plaintiff’s theory of recovery because Plaintiff alleges he suffered discrimination, harassment, and retaliation based on his race and age. There is no good cause for the discovery of complaints about other types of discrimination because the information is too remote to be of any benefit in this litigation. The request is granted with the following limitations. Categories 7 and 8 are limited to complaints based on race and/or age. The following items are to be produced for review by the Court: (1) the Complaint Form; (2) Complaint Adjudication Form, (3) Complaint Review Report; (4) Letter of Transmittal; (5) the Complaint Investigation (by which the Court means the final report of the investigation); (6) Any discipline recommended; (7) Any discipline imposed; (8) Audio/Video/transcripts of witness statements or interviews; (9) if #8 does not exist, any report documenting any witness statement. and (10) copies of any documents, photos or other items shown to any witness during the course of an interview. Categories 9 and 10 Defendant argues that Categories 9 and 10 are overbroad because Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant’s officers made false or misleading statements and because documents about the officers’ use of excessive force are not relevant to this action. These categories appear overbroad. Plaintiff’s good cause affidavit states he does not seek information pertaining to excessive force. Plaintiff’s claims are not related to excessive force. It appears the request for materials related to excessive force was made in error. Therefore, there is no good cause for the discovery of documents about Defendant’s officers’ use of excessive force. As for the information about Defendant’s officers making false or misleading statements, Plaintiff’s counsel does not allege any factual basis supporting a contention that that the officers at issue made false or misleading statements. Therefore, there is no good cause for the production of these materials.The requests for categories 9 and 10 are denied.DATED: February 23, 2024______________________________                                                                      Hon. Jill Feeney                                                                      Judge of the Superior Court