  Case Number:  21STCV11917A    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


September 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV11917A




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Depositions




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Krystal Tivis




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants Khatchaturian & Zargarian DDS, Inc.,
  Sanderson & Khatchaturian Dental Corp., Zaragarian & Khatchaturian
  Dental Corp., and Smile Dental Group



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Krystal Tivis (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendants Khatchaturian &
Zargarian DDS, Inc., Sanderson & Khatchaturian Dental Corp., Zaragarian
& Khatchaturian Dental Corp., and Smile Dental Group (“Defendants”) to produce
persons most knowledgeable to appear for deposition and to produce documents
identified in the deposition notices. 
Defendants oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), “[i]f, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action  . . . without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or proceed with it, or
to produce for inspection any document  .
. . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent ‘s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  
According to
Plaintiffs, their efforts to take the subject depositions began in October
2021.  Defendants are parties to this
action.  As such, Defendants must produce
their persons most knowledgeable to testify at deposition and produce documents
set forth in the deposition notice.  With
respect to the depositions that have been taken to date, there appear to be no indication
those individuals were offered as persons most knowledgeable for any of the entity
Defendants in this case and Defendants have not stated otherwise.  However, as Defendants point out in
opposition to the motion, Plaintiff did not notice the deposition of Defendant
Zaragarian & Khatchaturian Dental Corp. 
The motion is, therefore, premature with respect to that Defendant, but
it is granted as to Defendants Khatchaturian & Zargarian DDS, Inc.,
Sanderson & Khatchaturian Dental Corp., and Smile Dental Group.
In opposition,
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s deposition notices are overbroad and seek material
that is not discoverable. If Defendants sought to avoid producing persons most
qualified or documents pertaining to specified topics, Defendants were required
to seek a protective order so “[t]hat certain matters [would] not be inquired
into.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b)(9).)  Defendants did not do so.
The scope of the requested information is not an “error or irregularity” in the
deposition notice to which Defendants could object. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.410, subd. (a).)
Defendants also
argue Plaintiff failed to adequately attempt to informally resolve this matter.
 Plaintiff was not required to do so, as
Defendants indicated they did not intend to appear for the noticed depositions,
and they did not.  Instead, Plaintiff was
required to “contact[] [Defendants] to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiff
did so.  (Declaration of Susan R. Huerta
in Support of Motion to Compel Defendants’ Person Most Knowledgeable Depositions,
Exhibits 27-35.)
Plaintiff seeks
sanctions.  In this regard, the e-mail
exchange between the parties is revealing in that it appears Defendant simply
stood on their objections to the depositions and did not meaningfully meet and
confer regarding those objections so that they could take place.  Under these circumstances, the Court finds sanctions
are warranted, given Defendants abuse of the discovery process.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030; Huerta
Decl., Exhibits 27-35.)  The Court
imposes sanctions against Defendants Khatchaturian & Zargarian DDS, Inc.,
Sanderson & Khatchaturian Dental Corp., and Smile Dental Group and their
counsel of record, Ballard Rosenburg Golper & Savitt, LLP, in the amount of
$2,660, which represents four hours of attorney time to prepare the motion and
attend the hearing at $650 per hour, plus the filing fee.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendants Khatchaturian & Zargarian DDS, Inc., Sanderson &
Khatchaturian Dental Corp., and Smile Dental Group to designate and produce their
persons most qualified to testify on specified topics and to produce documents
is granted.  Those Defendants are to
produce their persons most qualified for deposition within 30 days of notice of
this order, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise. The scope of the depositions
is as set forth in Exhibit 7 attached to Huerta’s Declaration. But Defendants
are not obligated to produce documents in response to those requests that are overly
broad, duplicative, and/or not appropriately limited in time, such as Request Numbers
4, 8, 11, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, and 22.  
Defendants
Khatchaturian & Zargarian DDS, Inc., Sanderson & Khatchaturian Dental
Corp., and Smile Dental Group and their counsel of record, Ballard Rosenburg Golper
& Savitt, LLP, jointly and severally, are to pay $2,660 in sanctions to
Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 30 days.
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 