 Case Number:  23STCV03786    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  39 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV03786




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant United Convalescent Facilities, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Edmund Negrete and Fernando Negrete



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Edmund
Negrete and Fernando Negrete (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendant United Convalescent
Facilities, Inc. (“Defendant”) based on injuries Decedent Adan Abram Negrete
(“Decedent”) sustained while in Defendant’s care.  Defendant demurs to the second and third
causes of action in Plaintiff’s operative first amended complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of
the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Second Cause of Action:  Dependent Adult Abuse
The Elder Abuse
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act prohibits “[a]buse of an elder or a
dependent adult[,]” which is defined as “physical abuse, neglect, financial
abuse, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting
physical harm or pain or mental suffering[.]”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.07.)  Because it is a statutory claim, Plaintiffs must allege the
cause of action for elder abuse with particularity. (Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.) 

Plaintiffs allege Decedent
was fully dependent on Defendant’s employees for assistance with all activities
of daily living (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 63); because of Defendant’s lack of
proper care for Decedent, Decedent developed multiple pressure ulcers (id.,
¶¶ 83-88); and .  Defendant’s treatment
of Decedent resulted in Decedent being physically harmed (id., ¶ __).   For
pleading purposes, these allegations suffice, and Plaintiffs have adequately
alleged a claim for dependent abuse.  
Defendant argues Plaintiffs
fail to allege intentional abuse of Decedent. 
Defendant is incorrect. 
Plaintiffs allege Defendant knew of Decedent’s medical conditions, which
placed him at an elevated risk of developing pressure ulcers and, nonetheless, Defendants
failed to take adequate care of Decedent to avoid pressure ulcers.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 84-85.)  These allegations raise the inference Defendant
intentionally mistreated Decedent.
Defendant also
contend Plaintiffs have not alleged facts to state a claim for the heightened
remedies for elder abuse under Welfare and Institutions Code section
15657.  Defendant cannot demur to a claim
for remedies.  (See Daniels v. Select
Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1167, disapproved of
on other grounds Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
948, fn. 12 [    ].)  
Third Cause of Action: Willful
Misconduct
Defendant demurs
to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for willful misconduct.  Although it has been stated willful
misconduct is not a separate cause of action, but rather a type of claim for
negligence (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 526 (Berkley)),
the California Supreme Court has held “it is generally recognized that willful
or wanton misconduct is separate and distinct from negligence, involving
different principles of liability and different defenses.” (Calvillo-Silva
v. Home Grocery (1998) 19 Cal.4th 714, 729.)  Thus, there is a heightened pleading standard
for willful misconduct above that of simple negligence in that “willful
misconduct is not marked by a mere absence of care. Rather, it involves a more
positive intent actually to harm another or to do an act with a positive,
active and absolute disregard of its consequences.” (Ibid., internal quotes
and citations omitted.)
Therefore, to
establish willful misconduct, Plaintiff must prove the basic elements of a
negligence cause of action (duty, breach of duty, causation, and damage) and “actual
or constructive knowledge of the peril to be apprehended, actual or
constructive knowledge injury is a probable, as opposed to a possible, result
of the danger, and conscious failure to act to avoid the peril.”  (Berkley, supra, 152
Cal.App.4th at p. 528.)  In
the instant case, Plaintiff does not satisfy the heightened pleading standard in
that Plaintiff does not allege, for example,  Defendant’s positive intent to actually harm Decedent
and Defendant committed acts with a positive, active, and absolute disregard of
the consequences.  Accordingly, the Court
sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action with leave to amend.
Motion to Strike 
Defendant moves to
strike the punitive damages allegations.  In ruling on a motion to strike punitive
damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in
the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)
 Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, supra,
8 Cal.4th at p. 725.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is
not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege,
“Defendant[], through the decisions of [its] officers, directors, employees
and/or managing agents, acted in conscious disregard of the rights and safety
of patients and residents, including DECEDENT, by failing to provide adequate
staffing levels, among other failures noted above.  The facilities were not staffed as required
by law and were understaffed during the time period that the DECEDENT was
treated at the Facilities.”  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 164.)  Plaintiff
further alleges, Defendant’s “officers, directors, employees and/or managing
agents, were aware that staffing levels were inadequate to ensure adequate
supervision in meeting the DECEDENT’s needs. 
Defendant[] chose to take no corrective action.  The officers, directors, employees and/or
managing agents, knew that inadequate staffing levels at the Facilities, and
failure to adequately supervise the DECEDENT, would result in injury.”  (Id., ¶ 168.)  
Plaintiffs do not
allege specific facts to support their conclusion Defendant acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice such that an award of punitive damages is
warranted.  While Plaintiffs allege Defendant
failed to adequately staff the facility to care for Decedent, there are no
specific allegations to show Defendant’s officers, directors, or managing
agents made this staffing decision with oppression, fraud, or malice, nor which
such individuals committed the acts.  Accordingly,
the Court strikes the prayer for punitive damages with leave to amend.
Defendant also
moves to strike the prayer for attorney fees, which Plaintiffs seek an in
connection with their claim for elder abuse. 
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657 provides the statutory basis
for an attorney fee award.  To that end, Plaintiffs
must allege facts to show Plaintiffs are entitled to punitive damages in order
to recover attorney fees.  (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15657.)  As set forth
above, Plaintiffs fail to allege specific facts demonstrating they are entitled
to punitive damages and, therefore, they have not alleged facts supporting their
entitlement to attorney fees.  Accordingly,
the Court strikes the prayer for attorney fees with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for elder abuse is overruled.  Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of
action for willful misconduct is sustained with leave to amend.  Defendant’s motion to strike the prayers for
punitive damages and for attorney fees is granted with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint
within 10 days.
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 