 Case Number:  21STCV11917B    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


September 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV11917B




MOTION:  


Motions to Compel Depositions




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Krystal Tivis




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants Chris Khatchaturian, Albert Zargarian, and
  Vanessa Sanderson



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Krystal Tivis (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendants Chris Khatchaturian,
Albert Zargarian, and Vanessa Sanderson (“Defendants”) and Deponents Anthony
Adams and Jasmine Triche (“Deponents”) to appear for deposition and to produce
documents identified in the deposition notices. 
Defendants oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), “[i]f, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action  . . . without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or proceed with it, or
to produce for inspection any document  .
. . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent ‘s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition notice.”  
Defendants are
parties to this action.  As such, Defendants
must testify at deposition and produce documents set forth in the deposition
notices.  Deponents are employees of parties
to this action.  As such, they must
appear for deposition as well.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a) [service of deposition notice upon employee
of party in action sufficient for employee’s attendance at deposition].)  The motion is granted. 
In opposition,
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s deposition notices are overbroad and seek material
that is not discoverable. If Defendants sought to avoid producing these
individuals for deposition or documents on specified topics, Defendants were
required to seek a protective order so “[t]hat certain matters [would] not be
inquired into.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.420, subd. (b)(9).)  Defendants did
not do so. The scope of the requested information is not an “error or
irregularity” in the deposition notice, to which Defendants could object. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410.)
Defendants also
argue Plaintiff failed to adequately attempt to informally resolve this matter.
 Plaintiff was not required to do so, as
Defendants did not appear for deposition. Instead, Plaintiff was required to
“contact[] [Defendants] to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiff did
so.  (Declaration of Susan R. Huerta in
Support of Motion to Compel Depositions, Exhibit 34.)
Plaintiff seeks
sanctions in connection with this motion.  However, in her reply brief, Plaintiff
acknowledges, of the individuals noted above, only Albert Zargarian’s deposition
remains to be scheduled.  Under the circumstances,
the Court will not award sanctions.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant and Deponent Albert Zargarian to testify at deposition and
to produce documents is granted.  Deponent
is to appear for deposition within 30 days of notice of this order, unless
Plaintiff stipulates otherwise. The scope of the deposition is as set forth in
Exhibit 21 of the Huerta Declaration.
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 