 Case Number:  23STCV06931    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Rex Tong Hyun Chung, M.D., Tsuyoshi Todo, M.D., Deven Chandrakant
Patel, M.D., Armin A. Raza VI, M.D., and Mohammad Alzhari, M.D.’s Demurrer and
Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action for falsification of medical
records, SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action alleged
against Defendants Tsuyoshi Todo, M.D. and Mohammad Alzhari, M.D., and GRANTED
with leave to amend as to the prayer for attorney fees and prejudgment
interest. The demurrer and motion are otherwise OVERRULED and DENIED.
Defendant to provide notice.
I.                  
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Rex Tong Hyun Chung,
M.D., Tsuyoshi Todo, M.D., Deven Chandrakant Patel, M.D., Armin A. Raza VI,
M.D., and Mohammad Alzhari, M.D. (Defendants) demurrer to the claims alleged in
Plaintiff Ronald Martin’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC). Defendants
argue that Cedars-Sinai cannot be liable on any claim because it is not
statutorily capable of practicing medicine or overseeing those who do.
(Demurrer at pp. 10–12.) Defendant also argues that the third cause of action
for medical battery fails as the FAC alleges that Plaintiff underwent the
gallbladder surgery he originally consented to, albeit with different doctors.
(Demurrer at pp. 12–14.) Defendants raise the same arguments as to the fourth
cause of action for lack of informed consent, which they also claim is
duplicative of the first cause of action for medical negligence. (Demurrer at
pp. 14–17.) Defendants finally argue that the fifth cause of action for
falsification of medical records is in effect a fraud claim not pleaded with
the requisite specificity. (Demurrer at pp. 17–19.)
 
Defendants’ argument as to
Cedars-Sinai’s liability is unpersuasive. They rely on Business &
Professions Code § 2400, which states that “artificial legal entities shall
have no professional rights, privileges, or powers,” which under Business &
Professions Code § 2052 includes the practice of medicine. (Demurrer at pp.
10–11.) But the authority that Defendants’ cite stands only for the proposition
that the corporate practice of medicine is unlawful, not that plaintiffs in
civil litigation cannot allege (like most unlawful acts alleged in court) its factual
occurrence. The applicable authority indeed suggests that non-licensed entities
may be held vicariously liable for the torts of their licensed employees. (See
Lathrop v. HealthCare Partners Medical Group (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th
1412, 1427 [holding that MICRA’s damages limitation applies to an employing
entity vicariously liable for the professional medical negligence of its
agents].) 
Defendants’ arguments as to the absence of facts showing
vicarious liability for medical battery is likewise unavailing. This argument
rests upon the misunderstanding of the law as requiring employer authorization
or ratification of the wrong in question to maintain vicarious liability.
(Demurrer at p. 13, citing Civ. Code § 2339.) But if an employer authorizes an
intentional tort, its liability is direct, not vicarious. (See C.R. v. Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1110 [employer ratification
or authorization is “[a]n alternate theory to respondeat superior”].) The rule
applicable to vicarious liability is rather as follows:
There is no requirement that an employee's act
benefit an employer for respondeat superior to apply. In fact, an employer can
be liable for his employee's unauthorized intentional torts committed
within the scope of employment despite lack of benefit to the employer.
Accordingly, employees' willful, malicious and even criminal torts' may be
committed within the scope of employment, thus rendering their employers liable
under respondeat superior. To be within the scope of employment, the incident
giving rise to the injury must be an outgrowth of the employment, [and] the
risk of injury must be inherent in the workplace, or typical of or broadly
incidental to the employer's enterprise. 
(PCO,
Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 391, internal quotation marks and citations
omitted.) Thus, for respondeat superior liability to apply to an intentional
tort, it is only necessary to show the tort is “within the scope of
employment,” i.e. “an outgrowth of the employment” and involving a risk
“inherent in the workplace, or typical of or broadly incidental to the
employer’s enterprise.” (PCO, supra, 150 Cal.Atpp.4th
at p. 391.) The allegations of medical negligence and medical battery here fit
these criteria.
 
Defendants
next argue that the medical battery alleged here does not constitute battery,
since Plaintiff underwent the same procedure to which he consented, albeit with
different doctors. (Demurrer at pp. 12–14.) 
 
It is well
settled that a physician who performs a medical procedure without the patient's
consent commits a battery irrespective of the skill or care used. In the
medical context, the law has developed the doctrine of informed consent, which
requires a patient's consent be an informed consent to be effective and imposes
a duty on the physician to provide material information about any proposed
treatment, such as risks and alternative procedures. Under the informed consent
doctrine, the patient must have the capacity to reason and make judgments, the
decision must be made voluntarily and without coercion, and the patient must
have a clear understanding of the risks and benefits of the proposed treatment
alternatives or nontreatment, along with a full understanding of the nature of
the disease and the prognosis.
. . .
A typical
medical battery case is where a patient has consented to a particular
treatment, but the doctor performs a treatment that goes beyond the consent.
When an action is based upon the theory of surgery beyond consent, the gist of
such action is the unwarranted exceeding of the consent. This is a theory of
technical battery. For example, the patient consents to an electromyogram, a
relatively uncomplicated procedure, but the doctor performs a myelogram, which
involves a spinal puncture. Or, the patient consents to an operation on his
right ear, but the doctor operates on the left ear.
(Conte v. Girard Orthopaedic
Surgeons Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260,
1266–68, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.)
Defendant’s argument is
unpersuasive. Plaintiff alleges that he consented to surgery based on Defendant
Chung’s experience in performing the procedure, only to find that Chung did not
perform the surgery, and was not present in the operating room. (FAC ¶ 75.) Although
Defendants argue that the relevant consent forms “identify the lead surgeon’s
name and then state[] assistants are also being consented to,” these are not
matters contained in the pleadings or for which this court may take judicial
notice. (Demurrer at pp. 13–14.) 
Defendants’ objections to the fourth cause of action
for absence of informed consent largely mimic those raised against the medical
battery claim, and likewise fail. (Demurrer at pp. 14–15.) One new argument,
also unpersuasive, is that the fourth cause of action is duplicative of the
first cause of action for negligence, It rests upon the case Flowers v.
Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992,
which holds for the unremarkable proposition that general and professional
negligence claims are duplicative when asserted as to the same set of facts (Id.
at p. 998), and Cobbs v. Grant (1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, which held that the
doctor’s duty to obtain informed consent is a matter of negligence. But
although Defendants cite this latter case to argue that
failure-of-informed-consent claims are duplicative of medical negligence claims
in general, the holding of Cobbs was exactly the opposite. The Cobbs
court reversed a jury verdict entered in favor of a medical malpractice
plaintiff because the evidence did not support the existence of negligence in
the performance of a surgery, but could have supported a failure of informed
consent — and the general verdict rendered by the jury left the court “unable
to ascertain upon which of the two concepts the jury relied.” (Cobbs, supra,
8 Cal.3d at p. 234.) This is authority for the proposition that informed-consent
claims and negligent-surgery claims are different, not that they are the same.
 
However,
Defendants are correct that the fourth cause of action does not properly apply
against Defendants Tsuyoshi Todo, M.D., and Mohammad Alzghari, M.D.
Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Todo and Alzghari had no role
in the initial gallbladder removal surgery for which consent was obtained (FAC
¶¶ 81–82), but were involved, if at all in the emergency repair surgery that
followed. (FAC ¶¶ 36–37, 83–84.) Plaintiff indeed does not allege that Todo or
Alzghari played any role in the failure to obtain his informed consent under
the fourth cause of action. (FAC ¶¶ 69–79.) Plaintiff does not respond to this
argument in opposition. The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend
as to the fourth cause of action alleged against Defendants Tsuyoshi Todo,
M.D., and Mohammad Alzghari, M.D.
 
This
leaves Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for “falsification of medical
records.” Defendants characterize this as a claim for fraud, which must be
pleaded with particularity. The elements of fraud are: (1)
misrepresentation or concealment, (2) knowledge of its falsity, (3) intent to
defraud, (4) justifiable reliance and (5) resulting damage. (Gil v. Bank of
America, Nat. Ass'n (2006) 138 Cal. App. 4th 1371, 1381; Barbara A.
v. John G. (1983) 145 C.A.3d 369, 376.)  Fraud causes of action
must be pleaded with particularity, meaning that the plaintiff must allege
“how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Plaintiff does not dispute this characterization
of the claim in opposition. (Opposition at pp. 5–6.)
Defendants are correct that the
fraud claim is ill-pleaded, with specificity or otherwise. Specifically,
Plaintiff’s claim for falsification of medical records relates to the
falsification of post-operative reports after the injurious surgery at issue in
this case. (FAC ¶¶ 81–84.) Yet Plaintiff does not plead the elements of
reliance or resulting damage resulting from these falsifications. Plaintiff
does not allege that he relied upon the false reports, or that this reliance
caused him any harm.
The demurrer is therefore
SUSTAINED as to the fifth cause of action, with leave to amend. 
II. MOTION
TO STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendants move to strike two
references in the FAC to Defendants’ “wrongful conduct” (FAC ¶ 17) and “illegal
falsification of Plaintiff’s medical records.” (FAC ¶ 92; Motion at p. 5.)
Defendants reason that this sort of language is surplusage, relying on cases
holding that such allegations are “mere conclusions of law.” (Faulkner v.
California Toll Bridge Authority (1953) 40 Cal.2d 317, 329.)
There is no need to strike these allegations. Plaintiff’s
citation to “wrongful” conduct is not mere conclusion, but is supported by
factual allegations of botched surgery and departure from his consent. And
allegations of the “illegal” falsification of records are supported by
citations to provisions of the Business & Professions Code describing
unprofessional conduct. (FAC ¶ 90, citing Bus. & Prof. Code §§ 2261,
2262.)
Defendants also move to strike the prayer for attorney
fees. (Motion at pp. 5–6.) Parties to litigation must generally bear their own
attorneys’ fees, unless statute or contract provide otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1021.) Plaintiff in opposition articulates no lawful basis by which to claim
attorney fees in this case. (Opposition at p. 2.) The motion is therefore
GRANTED as to the prayer for attorney fees. 
Defendants also move to strike the
prayer for prejudgment interest, as this is not an action for a “sum certain,”
as described in Civil Code § 3287. (Motion at p. 6.) Defendants are correct: An
action for medical malpractice is not one for a “sum certain” for which Civil
Code § 3287 applies. (See Deocampo v. Ahn (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th
758, 783 [holding that medical malpractice and personal injury case was “not a
case to which Civil Code section 3287 even applies,” as the claim was not for
“payment of a ‘sum certain’”].)
The motion to strike is therefore
GRANTED with leave to amend as to the prayer for attorney fees and prejudgment
interest.
 