  Case Number:  19STCV31361    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Citimortgage, Inc.’s Motion for Spoliation Sanctions is DENIED..
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.                  
MOTION
FOR DISCOVERY SANCTIONS
Misuse of the discovery process may result in
the imposition of a variety of sanctions. These include payment of costs,
sanctions barring the introduction of certain evidence, sanctions deeming that
certain issues are determined against the offending party, and sanctions
terminating an action in favor of the aggrieved party. Misuse of the discovery
process includes failing to respond or submit to authorized discovery,
providing evasive discovery responses, disobeying a court order to provide
discovery, unsuccessfully making or opposing discovery motions without
substantial justification, and failing to meet and confer in good faith to
resolve a discovery dispute when required by statute to do so. The court may
impose sanctions to the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title.
The trial court has broad discretion to
impose sanctions for violations of court orders, including those intended to
compel compliance with a party's disclosure and discovery obligations, subject
to reversal only for arbitrary or capricious action.
(In re Marriage of Eustice (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1308–1309,
internal quotation marks, citations, and alterations omitted.)
The court may impose
terminating sanctions, include an order striking pleadings, and order
dismissing an action, or an order rendering judgment by default against a
party, for conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.030.) This conduct include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
Ultimate discovery
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules. 
(Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.)  Dismissal
is a drastic measure, and terminating sanctions should only be ordered when
there has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a
less severe sanction would not be effective. 
(Link v. Cater (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1326.)  “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.”  (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.)
Spoliation
of evidence means the destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the
failure to preserve evidence for another's use in pending or future litigation.
Such conduct is condemned because it can destroy fairness and justice, for it
increases the risk of an erroneous decision on the merits of the underlying
cause of action. Destroying evidence can also increase the costs of litigation
as parties attempt to reconstruct the destroyed evidence or to develop other
evidence, which may be less accessible, less persuasive, or both. While there
is no tort cause of action for the intentional destruction of evidence after
litigation has commenced, it is a misuse of the discovery process that is
subject to a broad range of punishment, including monetary, issue, evidentiary,
and terminating sanctions. A terminating sanction is appropriate in the first
instance without a violation of prior court orders in egregious cases of
intentional spoliation of evidence. 
 
Discovery
sanctions are intended to remedy discovery abuse, not to punish the offending
party. Accordingly, sanctions should be tailored to serve that remedial
purpose, should not put the moving party in a better position than he would
otherwise have been had he obtained the requested discovery, and should be
proportionate to the offending party's misconduct.
 
(Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223,
internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) One seeking a spoliation
sanction must show “that the records were destroyed
with a culpable state of mind,” and that “the destroyed records were
relevant to the party's claim or defense.” (Reeves
v. MV Transportation, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 666, 681–682.)
 
Defendant Citimortgage, Inc.
(Defendant) moves for terminating, issue, or evidentiary sanctions against
Plaintiffs Claudette Marie Leslie, Rodwell N. Leslie, and Lillette E. Leslie
(Plaintiff) based on the alleged spoliation of evidence caused by the loss of
Claudette’s computer to a storage facility auction after Plaintiff failed to
pay the fees.
 
Defendant presents the following
facts. Plaintiffs’ remaining causes of action following multiple challenges to
the pleadings concern Citimortgage’s alleged advancement of a foreclosure sale
in November 2018 while a loan modification application was pending review. Plaintiffs’
claims are supported by purported letters from Defendant confirming the status
of the modification in November 2018, the genuineness of which Defendant denied
in responses to requests for admission dated December 28, 2020. (Winslow Decl.
Exhs. A, B.) 
 
Defendant first expressed its
theory that the November 2018 letters were forgeries in a separate statement
submitted on August 10, 2021, before an informal discovery conference held on
August 13, 2021. (Winslow Decl. Exh. C.) Defendant claimed the letters were
“forgeries” and  “doctored versions of
letters Citi issued in 2016 and 2017.” (Ibid.) Accompanying this
separate statement was the declaration of Kyle Ramey, a Recovery Sr. Analysist
employed by Defendant, who stated that Defendant had no record of any such
letters or applications upon which they were based, and that the “Homeowner
Support Specialists” identified in the letters had left the company before
2017, indicating that the letters were based on prior letters sent by Defendant
in response to prior applications. (Id., Exh. A.) 
 
Defendant sent a deposition notice
for Claudette Leslie on December 15, 2021, requesting the original letters at
issue. (Winslow Decl. Exh. E.) Claudette responded with a declaration
concerning the whereabouts of the letters, which she indicated that she had
scanned the letters into her computer upon receipt of the documents, consistent
with her training as a paralegal. (Winslow Decl. Exh. F.) Claudette stated that
the original letters were lost in the eviction from the property that occurred
in June 2019, and the chaotic property-retrieval efforts that ensued in the
weeks thereafter, which were cut short by the new owners. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant served requests on May
26, 2023, seeking the production and inspection of any devices containing ESI
related to the November 2018 letters. (Winslow Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs responded
on June 26, 2023, stating that the computer on which the letters had initially
been scanned had been left in storage and auctioned off on May 16, 2023.
(Winslow Decl. Exh. H.) Defendant served follow-up discovery in August 2023, to
which Plaintiff responded that they did not take any measures to transfer files
from the old computer to a new computer when the new computer was obtained
between November 2018  and October 2019.
(Winslow Decl. Exh. K.) Thus the only copies of the original letters that exist
are hard copies that Plaintiffs’ made of digital copies of the original
letters. (Motion at p. 8.)
 
Defendant relies on the case Williams
v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, in which the appellate
court upheld the imposition of terminating sanctions for allowing evidence to
be lost with the liquidation of the contents of an unpaid storage unit. (Motion
at pp. 12–13.)
 
However, the analogy of this case
to Williams is strained. Williams involved a legal malpractice
case brought by a former client (Williams) against his attorney (Russ), when
the former allowed the entirety of his file, consisting of 36 boxes of
documents, to be destroyed by a storage company after failing to pay the rent.
(Williams, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1218.) The
trial court supported its imposition of terminating sanctions with the
following findings:
 
(1) Williams was knowledgeable about
litigation, particularly about the facts of this case, was very involved in and
integral to this litigation, and had inventoried the contents of his client
file more than once; (2) he demanded the file under the Rules of Professional
Conduct and was on notice that nonpayment of his storage rental fee would
result in destruction of the file; and (3) after filing this action and
demanding the file, he caused it to be destroyed by allowing the destruction to
happen, then concealed the fact for two years. Based on that, the court found
that the destruction of the files was intentional and inferred that this was
done to destroy evidence potentially favorable to Russ.
 
The court found this spoliation
was highly prejudicial to Russ's defense of the case. “It is stunning to this Court that [Williams] would file a malpractice
case, use the professional rules and demand his entire client file and then
have it destroyed. It is not enough that [Williams's] counsel took what he
thought was important and that [Russ] copied some of the client file. The
client file is a collection of documents. Destruction of part of it destroys
the integrity of the entire file. How do we know what was destroyed? How do you
prove a negative? Could there be a note or something written on something in
the file that would be exculpatory? We will never know its true value due to
the conduct of the [Williams].” Although aware that sanctions should
ordinarily be progressive and that lesser sanctions should be considered before
dismissal, the court found dismissal was warranted. This was based on the
findings made above, and findings that Williams had a duty to maintain the
client file and had the burden of proving no prejudice occurred, and that
intentional spoliation raised an inference of extreme prejudice. Based on the
unique facts of this case, and after weighing Williams's culpability against
the harm to Russ, the court concluded dismissal was the appropriate sanction
because lesser sanctions would not cure the harm done. The court then ordered
the case dismissed.
(Id. at p.1222.) Here,
the volume of evidence lost is less than in Williams, as Defendant here
complains of the loss of the digital copies of the two alleged November 2018
letters. Other copies of the letters, unlike in Williams, are still
accessible, and the prejudice resulting from their loss comes from the parties’
inability to corroborate or contradict, through metadata or some other forensic
ESI analysis, Plaintiffs’ account of their receipt. Unlike Williams,
Plaintiff did not unilaterally deprive Defendant of custody over the relevant
evidence, only to lose it. Further, Plaintiff did not conceal the destruction
of the evidence. When Defendant sought the original letters in a deposition
notice, Plaintiffs provided a declaration stating that they could not be
located and had likely been lost in the eviction. And when Defendant served
requests for the computer in question on May 26, 2023, Plaintiffs’ responses
indicated that the storage unit had been liquidated a mere ten days before.
Although Defendant had first articulated its theory of forgery in August 2021,
it did not express interest in the computer until it served the requests at
issue in May 2023, shortly after it had been destroyed. 
 
This is not to find that no
spoliation occurred, or that Plaintiffs may escape the consequence of losing
this evidence. It is only to leave conclusions regarding the spoliation of
evidence with the trier of fact: “Rather than decide the facts with respect to
the intentional destruction of evidence and impose a nonmonetary sanction on a
pretrial motion in circumstances not contemplated by the discovery statutes, we
believe that in most cases of purported spoliation
the facts should be decided and any appropriate inference should be made by the
trier of fact
after a full hearing at trial.” (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1431; see CACI 204 [“Willful Suppression of
Evidence”].) Defendant’s showing in this motion is not so egregious as to warrant
the dispositive sanctions that it seeks here.
 
The motion is therefore DENIED.