 Case Number:  24STCV14644    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



AMIYOKO
  SHABAZZ, et al.,
  
         vs.
 
V. NUEVA, L.P.
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV14644
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 16, 2024



 
Defendant V.
Nueva, L.P.’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Amiyoko Shabazz’s, Ramona Leckbee’s, Henry
Leckbee’s, and Sara Leckbee’s 2nd and
3rd causes of action in the Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend and overruled as to the 1st, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action.
Defendant V. Nueva,
L.P.’s motion to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is denied as moot. 
 
Defendant V. Nueva, L.P. (“V. Nueva”) (“Defendant”) demurs Plaintiffs
Amiyoko Shabazz’s (“Shabazz”), Ramona Leckbee’s (“Ramona”), Henry Leckbee’s
(“Henry”), and Sara Leckbee’s (“Sara”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) 1st, 2nd,
3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action in their complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)
Defendant also moves to strike portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint.  (Notice of MTS, pgs. 2-4;
C.C.P. §436(a).)
 
1.    
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed
the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the objections
to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)
The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer. (B) That the party who filed the pleading
subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel declares that on October 2, 2024, she attempted
to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel telephonically to discuss the
instant demurrer and motion to strike and left a voicemail.  (See Decl. of Henson ¶3.)  Defendant’s counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
Therefore, the Court will consider Defendant’s demurrer.
 
Procedural
Background
          Plaintiffs
filed their operative Complaint on June 12, 2024, against Defendant alleging six
causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability; (3) Nuisance; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;
(5) Negligence; and (6) Violation of Civil Code §1942.4.
Defendant filed the instant demurrer on October 4, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on November
14, 2024.  Defendant filed its omnibus
reply on November 21, 2024.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant owned and/or managed 130
S. La Fayette Park Place, Los Angeles, CA 90057 (“Subject Property”) where they
each resided in units #303 and #302.  (See
Complaint ¶¶1-5.)  Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that at all relevant times Defendant owned, managed,
and/or was the landlord of the Subject Property, Jennifer, whose last name is
unknown, was a property manager at the Subject Property.  (See Complaint ¶9.)  Plaintiffs allege Jennifer was involved in all
day-to-day operations of the Subject Property, including tenant relations,
leasing, maintenance, and repair and security.  (Complaint ¶9.)  Plaintiffs allege Jennifer also supervised
Defendant’s maintenance staff and hired outside contractors to make repairs at
the Subject Property.  (Complaint ¶9.)
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that Defendant
consented to, approved, affirmed, and ratified each and every action taken by
Bullock.[1]  (Complaint ¶10.)
Plaintiffs alleges that on November 15, 2017, Plaintiff
Shabazz entered into a written lease agreement to lease a unit at the Subject
Property and became a tenant of Defendant.  (Complaint ¶11.)  Plaintiff that on or about January 2021,  Plaintiffs Ramona, Henry, and Sara entered
into a written lease agreement to lease their unit at the Subject Property and
became tenants of Defendant.  (Complaint
¶12.)  Plaintiffs allege that pursuant to
the terms of the lease agreement, Plaintiffs agreed to pay monthly rents in
exchange for habitable, safe, and clean living quarters.  (Complaint ¶13, Exh. A.)  
Plaintiffs allege Defendant has not maintained the Subject
Property, therein causing and allowing slum and substandard living conditions.  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiffs allege that during their tenancy,
the following conditions have existed at the Subject Property, and have been
allowed to exist by Defendant: (a) insect infestation; (b) visible mold and
mildew; (c) leaking walls; (d) defective plumbing; (e) inoperable outlets; and
(f) rodents and vermin (collectively, “Conditions”). (Complaint ¶14.)  
Plaintiffs allege they suffered stress and anxiety because
of the Conditions at the Subject Property, and continued to notify Defendant of
their suffering, but Defendant did nothing to help Plaintiffs.   (Complaint ¶15.)  Plaintiffs allege they repeatedly notified
Defendant of the defective and dangerous conditions in their apartments and
Defendant simply ignored their pleas or tried to avoid fixing them properly.  (Complaint ¶16.)  
Plaintiffs allege that they repeatedly informed Defendants
that the Conditions at the Subject Property were causing them extreme anxiety
and discomfort.  (Complaint ¶17.)  
Plaintiffs allege the Los Angeles County Health Department
inspected the Subject Property and found multiple violations that were asked to
be remedied.  (Complaint ¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant failed to remedy
these conditions within 35 days.  (Complaint
¶18.)  
Plaintiffs allege that despite Defendant’s knowledge of the
Conditions and Plaintiffs’ health issues, Defendant failed to properly remedy
the Conditions, placing Plaintiffs’ health and safety at risk.  (Complaint ¶19.)
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to each cause
of action on the basis it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action against Defendant and is uncertain as to Defendant.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4.)[2]
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability (2nd COA)
The elements for a breach of the implied warranty are: (1) the
existence of a materially defective condition affecting habitability; (2) the defective
condition was unknown to the tenant at the time of occupancy; (3) the effect on
habitability of the defective condition was not apparent upon a reasonable
inspection;  (4) notice was given to the
landlord within a reasonable time after the tenant discovered or should have
discovered the breach of warranty; and (5) the landlord was given a reasonable
time to correct the defect while the defendant remained in possession.  (Quevedo v. Braga (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d
Supp. 1, 7-8, disapproved of by Knight v. Hallsthammar (1981) 29 Cal.3d
46.)
Plaintiffs allege the Conditions enumerated in the
Complaint are unsafe and render various apartments uninhabitable.  (Complaint ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege they legitimately expected
that the dwellings they rented from Defendants were and would remain fit for
habitation during the duration of their leaseholds.  (Complaint ¶30.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant had and has
actual knowledge of the Conditions, and in spite of this knowledge, Defendant
has done nothing and has allowed Plaintiffs’ health and safety to be placed at
risk by residing in these apartments. 
(Complaint ¶31.)  Plaintiffs
allege that despite the Conditions, Defendant continued to collect full rent
from Plaintiffs in violation of the implied warranty of habitability.  (Complaint ¶31.)
Plaintiffs allege that as a proximate result of Defendant’s
actions and omissions alleged herein, Plaintiffs were privileged to withhold
rent from Defendant, and Plaintiffs have therefore been damaged thereby in
amounts according to proof at trial.  (Complaint
¶33.)  Plaintiffs allege that they have
suffered other economic damages, including, but not limited to, being forced to
expend monies to make repairs to their units and damage to their personal
property.  (Complaint ¶33.)
Plaintiffs allege that as a further proximate result of
Defendant’s conduct, Plaintiffs have been injured in their bodies, in their
health, strength, and activities, and sustained injuries to their mental health
and shock and injury to their nervous systems, all of which have caused and
continue to cause Plaintiffs great mental, physical, and nervous pain and
suffering.  (Complaint ¶34.)
Plaintiffs allege that as a further proximate result of
Defendant’s conduct, plaintiffs have incurred and will in the future incur,
medical and other related expenses in connection herewith, the exact amount of
which costs, fees and expenses are unknown to Plaintiffs at this time, but
which will be shown according to proof at the time of trial.  (Complaint ¶35.)
          Plaintiffs
fail to allege that the defective condition was unknown to the tenant at the
time of occupancy; that the effect on habitability of the defective condition
was not apparent upon a reasonable inspection;  that notice was given to Defendant within a
reasonable time after Plaintiffs discovered or should have discovered the
breach of warranty; and Defendant was given a reasonable time to correct the
defect while the defendant remained in possession.  (Quevedo, 72 Cal.App.3d Supp. at
pgs. 7-8.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause
of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Public Nuisance (3rd
COA)
A cause of action for public
nuisance must allege the following elements: (1) defendant, by acting, or
failing to act, created a condition that was: (a) harmful to health; or (b) obstructed
the free use of the property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment
of life or property; (2) the condition affected a substantial number of people
at the same time; (3) an ordinary person would be reasonably annoyed or
disturbed by the condition; (4) the seriousness of the harm outweighs the
social utility of the conduct; (5) plaintiff did not consent to the conduct; (6)
plaintiff suffered harm that was different from the type of harm suffered by
the general public; and (7) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in
causing plaintiff’s harm.  (Birke v. Oakwood
Worldwide
(2009) 169 Cal.App.4th 1540, 1548.)
Plaintiffs allege they leased
the Subject Property from Defendant. 
(Complaint ¶38.)  Plaintiffs
allege the conditions as described herein constitute a nuisance in that the
Conditions were injurious to the health and safety of the Plaintiffs and the
public at large, and were further indecent and offensive to the senses of Plaintiffs
and the public at large, and interfered substantially with Plaintiffs’ comfortable
enjoyment of the premises.  (Complaint
¶39.)
Plaintiffs allege this nuisance had
a deleterious effect on the public while at the same time specifically injuring
Plaintiffs, who were exposed to the defective conditions not directly affecting
the public at large.  (Complaint ¶40.)
Plaintiffs allege that despite
being required by law to abate the nuisance, Defendant willfully failed to correct
conditions rendering the premises a nuisance, and Defendant knew, or reasonably
should have known, that Plaintiffs would be injured as a result of this failure
to abate the nuisance.  (Complaint ¶41.)
Plaintiffs allege that due to
the Defendant’s failure to abate the nuisance, Plaintiffs suffered personal injuries.  (Complaint ¶42.)  Plaintiffs allege that as a direct and
proximate legal result of Defendant’s failure to abate the nuisance as set
forth above Plaintiffs were hurt in their health, strength and activity,
sustaining shock and injuries to their bodies, persons and nervous systems, all
of which said injuries have caused and continue to cause Plaintiffs great pain
and mental anguish, fear, anxiety, torment and emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶43.)
Plaintiffs allege that as a
further, direct, and legal result of Defendant’s failure to abate the nuisance and
dangerous condition of the subject property as alleged herein, Plaintiffs were
required to and did employ physicians for medical examination, treatment and
care for their injuries and thus incurred medical and related expenses.  (Complaint ¶44.)  Plaintiffs allege they did incur and will
continue to incur in the future further medical, therapeutic and related
expenses, in an amount according to proof. 
(Complaint ¶44.)
Plaintiffs allege that as a
direct and legal result of Defendant’s failure to abate the nuisance and the dangerous
condition of the Subject Property as alleged herein, Plaintiffs suffered damage
to their personal property, all to their damage, in an amount according to
proof.  (Complaint ¶45.)
“Given ‘the broad definition of
nuisance,’ the independent viability of a nuisance cause of action ‘depends on
the facts of each case.’ [Citation.] ‘Where negligence and nuisance causes of
action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is a
negligence claim.’ [Citations.]  (Avedon
v. State of California (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1336, 1345, internal
citations omitted.)
Here, Plaintiffs’ nuisance claim
and negligence claims are reliant on the same duties, the same “nuisances”
(i.e. the Conditions) and the same actions—or inactions—of Defendant.  Plaintiffs base their nuisance and negligence
claims on the same set of facts underpinning their entire Complaint.  (Complaint ¶¶8-19.)  When a cause of action is claiming the same
thing but using a different label, it may be rejected as duplicative.  (El Escorial Owners’ Association v. DLC
Plastering, Inc., (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
nuisance is impermissibly duplicative.
Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (4th COA)
“A cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051.)
“‘Behavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position that gives him
power to damage the plaintiff’s interests; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.’”  (Molko v. Holy
Spirit Association
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122, internal citation omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege on information
and belief that Defendant knew Plaintiffs would be particularly susceptible to
emotional distress and mental suffering resulting from the actions and
omissions alleged herein.  (Complaint
¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege the conduct of
defendants as herein alleged was egregious, extreme and outrageous and done
with reckless disregard of the likelihood of inflicting severe emotional
distress.  (Complaint ¶49.)  Plaintiffs allege specifically, Defendant has
completely failed in their duty as a landlord to maintain the Subject Property
and has allowed slum living conditions to persist which spread infection,
sickness and disease.  (Complaint ¶49.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendant’s
conduct was reckless or intentional and malicious, and done for the purpose of
causing Plaintiffs to suffer humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional
distress.  (Complaint ¶50.)  Plaintiffs allege the as a direct and
proximate result of Defendants’ outrageous conduct, Plaintiffs suffered and
continue to suffer severe mental and emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶51.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Plaintiffs allege that the Subject Property had
an insect infestation, defective plumbing, a leaking roof, and rodents and
vermin.  (Complaint ¶14).  Plaintiffs allege that they notified Defendant
of these conditions and that rather than fix the Conditions, Defendant ignored
them.  (See Complaint ¶15). Plaintiffs sufficiently plead that
the Defendant intentionally and willfully placed their health and safety at
risk and further had a special relationship with Plaintiffs as their landlord
which they abused.  (See Molko, 46 Cal.3d at pg. 1122.)
Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of Civil Code §1942.4 (6th COA)
The elements for violation of
Civil Code §1942.4 are: (1) a landlord demanded rent, collected rent, issued a
notice of rent increase or issued a three-day notice to pay rent; (2) the
dwelling substantially lacked any of the affirmative standards listed in
§1941.1 or violates Health and Safety Code §17920.10, or is deemed and declared
substandard as set forth in §17920.3; (3) a public officer or employee
responsible for the enforcement of any housing law has notified the landlord or
the landlord’s agent in writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance
or repair substandard conditions; (4) the conditions have existed and have not
been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice to abate and delay
is without good cause; and (5) conditions were not caused by an act or omission
of the tenant.  (Civ. Code
§1942.4(a)(1)-(4); see Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281,1298.)
Plaintiffs allege that at all
pertinent times, Plaintiffs and Defendant were in a landlord-tenant
relationship.  (Complaint ¶62.)  Plaintiffs allege that throughout the time of
the tenancy of Plaintiffs the Subject Property lacked the affirmative standard
characteristics listed in Civil Code §1941.1. 
(Complaint ¶63.)  Plaintiffs
allege that at various times during Plaintiffs’ tenancies, a public officer
responsible for the enforcement of housing laws noted the substandard
conditions in the Subject Property and ordered Defendant by written notice
after inspection of the premises of the Defendant’s obligations to abate the
nuisances and/or repair the substandard conditions at the Subject Property.  (Complaint ¶64.)
Plaintiffs allege that the
conditions cited had existed and were not abated 35 Pays beyond the date of the
issuance of the notices, and defendants had no good cause for delay in
complying with the government orders.  (Complaint ¶65.)  Plaintiffs allege the conditions cited were
not caused by acts or omissions of Plaintiffs in violation of Civil Code
Section 1929 or 1941.2.  (Complaint ¶65.)
Plaintiffs allege that in spite
of the citations, defendants have continued to demand and accept rent from Plaintiffs
in violation of Civil Code §1942.4, and illegally served 3-Day Notices to Pay
Rent or Quit in violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4.  (Complaint ¶66.)
Plaintiffs allege that by reason
of Defendant’s unlawful conduct, Plaintiffs have sustained general and special
damages in amounts to be proven at trial.  (Complaint ¶67.)  Plaintiffs are also entitled to recover
special statutory damages of not less than $100 nor more than $5,000 for each of
Defendant’s violations of Civil Code §1942.4. 
(Complaint ¶67.)  
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a
cause of action for Violation of Civil Code §1942.4.  Plaintiffs sufficiently allege (1) Defendant
demanded rent, collected rent, issued a notice of rent increase or issued a
three-day notice to pay rent (Complaint ¶66); (2) the dwelling substantially
lacked any of the affirmative standards listed in §1941.1 or violates Health
and Safety Code §17920.10, or is deemed and declared substandard as set forth
in §17920.3 (Complaint ¶63); (3) a public officer or employee responsible for
the enforcement of any housing law has notified the landlord or the landlord’s
agent in writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair
substandard conditions (Complaint ¶64); (4) the conditions have existed and
have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice to abate
and delay is without good cause (Complaint ¶65); and (5) conditions were not
caused by an act or omission of the tenant (Complaint ¶65).  (Civ. Code §1942.4(a)(1)-(4)
Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is overruled.
 
Uncertainty
All COAs
A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
If the complaint
contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, failure to label each cause of action is not ground for demurrer:
“Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the lack of labels . . .
does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to understand the
complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 n.2.) 
Where a demurrer
is made upon this ground, it must distinctly specify exactly how or why the
pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears (by reference to page
and line numbers of the complaint).  (See Fenton v. Groveland Community
Services District (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.) 
Defendant fails
to specify where the uncertainty appears by reference to page line and numbers
in the complaint.  (See id.) 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is overruled. 
 
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 2nd and 3rd causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend and
overruled as to the 1st, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.    
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Defendant’s Motion
to Strike is denied as moot.
 
Conclusion
Defendant’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  