 Case Number:  23STCV28309    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants’
Ex Parte Application for Order Advancing the Hearing on Motion to Reopen
Discovery
Defendants
Clan Co, Alison Wattles, Frank Wattles, and Marion Wattles apply ex parte to
advance the hearing on their motion to reopen discovery.  They show good cause to advance the hearing,
which is currently scheduled after the trial. 
The
ex parte application is granted.
The
court hereby advances the hearing on defendants’ motion to reopen
discovery from August 2, 2024, to today.
Defendants
do not show good cause to reopen discovery.  They move to reopen discovery to depose Thomas
Reichmann, an inspector for the Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD).  
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (b) provides: 
In exercising its discretion to grant or deny [a motion to reopen
discovery], the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the
leave requested, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) The necessity and the reasons for the discovery.
(2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.
(3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.
(4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously
set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.
Defendants fail to show deposing Reichmann
is necessary.  They make a conclusory
argument that it is necessary because “whether Defendants received proper
notice goes directly to whether they can be liable under Civil Code Civil Code
§ 1942.4.”  (Memo, p. 4.)  Defendants rely on Reichmann’s statement to defendant
Alison Wattles “that a previous inspector had misinformed [her] about code
violations, and had told [her] to make repairs that were not necessary.”  (A. Wattles Decl., ¶ 9.)  Wattles further states, “For example, I had
been told by an LAHD inspector to put a smoke detector in the kitchen,
something that Mr. Reichmann told me was incorrect and not necessary.”  (Ibid.)
Defendants do not show a different
inspector’s opinion about a past notice of code violations is relevant to
plaintiff’s claim under Civil Code section 1942.4.  The relevant facts are whether: (1) the
dwelling was substandard, (2) defendants were notified in writing of
obligations to conduct repairs, (3) the conditions continued 35 days after the
notice, and (4) the tenant caused the conditions.  (Id., subd. (a).)  Defendants do not show Reichmann is a
percipient witness to those facts.    
Defendants also do not show any diligence
in deposing Reichmann.  They contend, “Defendants
could not have discovered Mr. Reichmann’s opinion of the current condition of
the Premises prior to the discovery cutoff because he did not inspect the
Premises until after the discovery cutoff.” 
(Memo, p. 3.)  But they are not
seeking discovery about the current condition of the premises.  The current conditions are not related to
defendants’ potential liability under Civil Code section 1942.4.  Defendants seek discovery about Reichmann’s
opinion of past notices of code violations. 
(A. Wattles Decl., ¶ 9.)  Long
before the discovery cutoff, they knew Reichmann was an inspector for LAHD who
had inspected the premises in 2014.  They
could have sought his opinion at any time. 
  
Permitting this discovery would be
unlikely to prevent the trial from going forward as scheduled on July 23.  The trial was initially set for June 5 and
has been continued twice. 
After considering all relevant factors, the
court does not find good cause to reopen discovery.  
Disposition
            Defendants
Clan
Co, Alison Wattles, Frank Wattles, and Marion Wattles’s motion to reopen
discovery is denied.