 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants New York Life Insurance,
New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits Solutions’ Demurrer and Motion
to Strike to Portions of Third Amended Complaint
Demurrer
Defendants
New York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits
Solutions (collectively, NY Life) demur to the first, third, eighth, and ninth
causes of action alleged against them by plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s third
amended complaint.
Summary of Allegations Against NY Life
The third amended complaint alleges plaintiff
“submitted relevant doctor’s notes to” her superiors, but they “directed that
Mkrtchyan send the notes to defendant New York Life instead and denied
Mkrtchyan the opportunity to be released to return to work until defendant New
York Life made that decision first.”  (¶
21.k.)  It alleges NY Life “knowingly and
intentionally failed to acknowledge her active doctor’s notes which caused a
delay in the approval process for her leave” and “ma[de] misrepresentations to
Mkrtchyan and intentionally caus[ed] lengthy delays.”  (¶ 21.l.)  
Plaintiff further alleges, “On or
around March 2023, New York Life knowingly and intentionally denied Mkrtchyan’s
medical leave claiming it never received Mkrtchyan’s doctor’s notes even though
it was provided to them by Mkrtchyan.  Additionally,
it is QTC’s obligation to provide data to New York Life necessary for
determining whether a medical leave is valid and authorized pursuant to process
guidelines established with New York Life.  QTC worked collectively with New York Life to
push Mkrtchyan out of her employment by claiming they never received her doctor’s
notes.  Mkrtchyan not only provided all
relevant doctor’s notes multiple times to QTC but she provided the same to New
York Life who ignored them.  Mkrtchyan
further called a New York Life representative to confirm receipt of her doctor’s
notes to no avail.  After repeated
attempts by Mkrtchyan to contact both New York Life and QTC, her leave was finally
approved.”  (¶ 21.m.)  
The third amended complaint alleges, “New
York Life intentionally made misrepresentations to Mkrtchyan about the status
of her note to cause delays to the any approval of her reasonable accommodation
request, and to cause Mkrtchyan to give up and end her employment.”  (¶ 21.u.) 
“On June 2, 2023, New York Life/QTC, without ever engaging in the
interactive process with Mkrtchyan unilaterally denied her accommodation
request without coming to a compromise, forcing Mkrtchyan to stay out on
medical leave.”  (¶ 21.x.)  
1st Cause of Action: Disability Discrimination
            Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts for this cause of action against NY Life.  “[A]n employer’s business entity agents can be
held directly liable under the FEHA for employment discrimination in
appropriate circumstances when the business-entity agent has at least five
employees and carries out FEHA-regulated activities on behalf of an
employer.”  (Raines v. U.S.
Healthworks Medical Group (2023) 15 Cal.5th 268, 273.)
            Plaintiff
alleges NY Life “forced her on medical leave instead” of providing a reasonable
accommodation.  (3AC, ¶ 21.v.)  She thus alleges NY Life itself carried out
the FEHA-regulated activity of deciding key terms and conditions of her
employment: whether she could work or not. 
She further alleges the ultimate fact that her disability was a
“substantial motivating factor[]” in defendants’ refusal to permit her to
work.  (¶ 29.)  Generally,
intent is an ultimate fact.  (See, e.g., Perkins
v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6 [allegations that defendants
acted “wrongfully and intentionally” and “in retaliation” sufficient to support
prayer for punitive damages]; Johnson v. Casetta (1961) 197 Cal.App.2d
272, 276 [“an allegation of knowledge of incompetency is an allegation of
ultimate fact”]; Rosin v. Superior Court (1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 486, 490
[“It has been suggested that the allegation of petitioner’s intent in removing
the children from the jurisdiction is only a conclusion. . . .  This is an allegation of fact, not a mere
conclusion.”].)
            NY
Life argues the sham pleading doctrine bars plaintiff’s new allegations about
discrimination.  “Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks
raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006)
139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)  The doctrine
is not “intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting erroneous
allegations of generic terms which may have legal implications but which are
also loosely used by laymen or to prevent the correction of ambiguous
statements of fact.” (Contreras v. Blue Cross of California (1988) 199
Cal.App.3d 945, 950.)
            The
second amended complaint alleged NY Life denied any accommodation and told
plaintiff it “blam[ed]” the other entity defendants.  (SAC, ¶ 88.) 
The third amended complaint alleges NY Life and the other defendants
“collectively worked together to push Mkrtchyan out of her employment.”  (¶ 21.l.)  These allegations are not so inconsistent as
to warrant applying the sham pleading doctrine. 
Blaming plaintiff’s employer while communicating with plaintiff does not
mean NY Life did not work together with her employer.  The former merely concerns what NY Life
said.  The latter concerns what NY Life
did.  
3rd Cause of Action: Retaliation
            Plaintiff
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action against NY Life.  As discussed above, plaintiff alleges NY Life
itself carried out the FEHA-regulated activity of determining the terms and
conditions of her employment.  Plaintiff
again alleges the ultimate fact that plaintiff’s protected activity was a
“substantial motivating reason[] for the loss of” her job.  (¶ 53.) 

8th Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
Plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action against NY Life.  “An essential element of such a claim is a
pleading of outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human decency.  [Citations.] 
Managing personnel is not outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human
decency, but rather conduct essential to the welfare and prosperity of
society.  A simple pleading of personnel
management activity is insufficient to support a claim of intentional
infliction of emotional distress, even if improper motivation is alleged.  If personnel management decisions are
improperly motivated, the remedy is a suit against the employer for
discrimination.”  (Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80.)  
Plaintiff
does not allege outrageous conduct beyond the bounds of human decency.  Plaintiff alleges NY Life falsely told her
they had not received her doctor’s notes and requests for accommodation to intentionally
delay her efforts to obtain a reasonable accommodation.  (3AC, ¶¶ 21.l, 21.m, 21.u.)  At most, that constitutes a callous and
improper manner of personnel management. 

Even
assuming these acts were not personnel management, they are not so outrageous
as to exceed the bounds of human decency. 
Lying to an employee may “demonstrate
a callous disregard for plaintiff[’s] professional and personal well-being,”
but these allegations are “not extreme or outrageous to support a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.”  (Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp.
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 781.)
Plaintiff cites Renteria v. County
of Orange (1978) 82 Cal.App.3d 833 for the proposition that “discrimination
in the workplace is recognized as ‘extreme and outrageous’ for purposes of
IIED.”  (Opp., p. 13.)  Renteria considered only whether the
rule of workers’ compensation exclusivity bars IIED claims, not the adequacy of
the employee’s claims.  The court stated,
“The issue on this appeal, as we view it, is the narrow one of an employee’s
remedies for intentional infliction of emotional distress.”  (82 Cal.App.3d at p. 838.)  It concluded, “[A]n employee’s cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress constitutes an implied
exception to the exclusive remedy provisions of Labor Code section 3601.”  (Id. at p. 843.)  Renteria does not apply.  
9th Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination,
Harassment, and Retaliation
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  FEHA provides
it is unlawful for an employer (or agent) “to fail to take all reasonable
steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940(k).)  NY Life relies on the rule that this claim
cannot stand on its own without the underlying claims for discrimination or
harassment.  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1309; Trujillo
v. North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)  Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts for those
claims, so this claim also withstands demurrer.
Leave to Amend
After a successful
demurrer, where “there is a reasonable possibility that the defects can be
cured by amendment, leave to amend must be granted.”  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.)  The plaintiff
bears the burden of “demonstrat[ing] how the complaint can be amended.”  (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Ins. Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 711.)  “Leave to amend should be denied where the
facts are not in dispute and the nature of the claim is clear, but no liability
exists under substantive law.”  (Lawrence
v. Bank of America (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 431, 436.)
Plaintiff
does not meet her burden of showing she can cure the defect in her eighth cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Her opposition requests leave to amend but does
not explain how she would amend the complaint. 
(Opp., p. 14.)  Plaintiff already
amended the complaint three times.  Curing
this cause of action would require alleging dramatically different facts about
what NY Life did.  Plaintiff shows no
reasonable possibility she can do so.  
Motion
to Strike
            The NY Life defendants move to strike
10 portions of plaintiff’s third amended complaint regarding punitive damages.  Courts may strike allegations related to
punitive damages where the facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice,
oppression or fraud necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code
section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Conclusory allegations are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)  The
complaint must make “factual assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants]
acted with oppression, fraud or malice.” 
(Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges sufficient facts to recover
punitive damages.  “[W]illfully and
consciously retaliat[ing] against” employees for exercising their rights can
constitute malicious or oppressive conduct sufficient for punitive
damages.  (Colucci v. T-Mobile USA,
Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 442, 455.) 
That an employer “intentionally discriminated against” an employee can
suffice for malice.  (Cloud v. Casey
(1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 895, 911.)  That the employers
“then attempted to hide the illegal reason for their decision with a false
explanation” could be found “base, contemptible or vile.”  (Id. at p. 912.)   
As discussed above, plaintiff adequately alleges NY
Life intentionally prohibited her from working because of her disability and
her protected activity.  She further
alleges NY Life did so partially by using dishonest means: falsely claiming it
had not received her doctor’s notes or requests for accommodation.  At this stage, those allegations suffice for
punitive damages.  Whether the alleged
conduct rises to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud is a question of
fact.  
Disposition
            Defendants
New York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits
Solutions’ demurrers to plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s eighth cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.  Defendants’
demurrers to plaintiff’s first, third, and ninth causes of action are overruled.  
Defendants
New York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits
Solutions’ motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint is denied.  
Defendants New
York Life Insurance, New York Life, and New York Life Group Benefits Solutions
shall answer the third amended complaint within 20 days.