 Case Number:  23SMCV00517    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   NETWORK EXPERTS, INC.,   Plaintiff, v.  BEVERLY HILLS IT SERVICES, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV00517     Hearing Date:  June 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS BEVERLY HILLS IT    SERVICES AND BEVERLY HILLS IT’S    MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT AND    DEFAULT JUDGMENT     BACKGROUND  This is theft of trade secrets case.  Plaintiff Network Experts provides computer sales. consulting and IT services.  Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.   Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli, “Defendants”) which then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services.  Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.   Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients.  Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.   The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel.     Plaintiff served Defendants by substitute service on February 8, 2023.  Service is deemed completed on the 10th day after mailing, which is February 19, 2023.  Defendants’ response to the Complaint was due by March 21, 2023.  Defendants failed to respond.  Accordingly, default was entered against the Entity Defendants on April 27, 2023 and against Baboli on May 2, 2024.   Defendants moved to set aside default, which was granted as to Baboli and denied as to the Entity Defendants on November 3, 2023.  The Entity Defendants moved for reconsideration of the order denying their motion to set aside default, which was denied on February 20, 2024.  On March 4, 2024, default judgment was entered against the Entity Defendants for $90,000 and for injunctive relief  The Entity Defendants now move to set aside default, yet again.  As with their earlier motion for reconsideration, the Entity Defendants argue they were not properly served under Code Civ. Proc. §415.20(c) and Bus. & Prof. Code §17538.5(d).  In the alternative, the Entity Defendants argue the Court should not have entered default judgment against them because they are jointly liable with the non-defaulted individual defendant, Baboli; where there is joint and several liability, a several judgment is not proper, and Baboli has raised affirmative defenses that, if proven, would establish that the defaulting Entity Defendants are not liable to Plaintiff.   LEGAL STANDARD “Compliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction.  Thus, a default judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.  Under section 473, subdivision (d), the court may set aside a default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as a matter of law, due to improper service.”  (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)   “When a court lacks jurisdiction in a fundamental sense, an ensuing judgment is void, and thus vulnerable to direct or collateral attack at any time.”  (Strathvale Holdings v. E.B.H. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1241, 1249 (trial court properly granted motion for relief from default and default judgment based on CCP §473(d) where defendants argued there was no valid service of process and they lacked minimum contacts with California).)   A defendant may therefore move to set aside a default and default judgment based on improper service and lack of personal jurisdiction under Code Civ. Proc. §473(d).  (Id. at 1250.)  A defendant need not bring a motion to quash prior to or in conjunction with a motion for relief from default and default judgment pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §473(d).  (Id.) It is always the plaintiff’s burden to establish the existence of jurisdiction.  (Id. at 1250-1251; Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440.)  Thus, even though defendant is the moving party on a motion to quash or a motion to set aside a void judgment under Code Civ. Proc. §473(d), the burden is on plaintiff to establish proper service.  (Dill, 24 Cal.App.4th at 1439-1440.)  A valid proof of service gives rise to a rebuttable presumption of valid service.  (Id. at 1441-1442.)  But the presumption may be overcome by contrary evidence.  (City of Los Angeles v. Morgan (1951) 105 Cal.App.2d 726, 731.) The statutory requirements of service are construed to uphold jurisdiction, rather than defeat it.  (See Pasadena Medi-Center Associates v. Sup.Ct. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 773, 778.)  As long as the defendant receives actual notice of the lawsuit, substantial compliance with the Code provisions governing service of summons will generally be held sufficient.  (Id.).    EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court overrules Plaintiff’s Objection Nos. 1-2 to the Declaration of Robert Rieder.  The Court sustains the Entity Defendants’ Objection No. 1 to the Declaration of Robert Rieder. DISCUSSION The Entity Defendants argue that they were not served in accordance with Code Civ. Proc. §415.20(c) and Bus. & Prof. Code §17538.5(d).   Section 415.20(c) provides that “if the only address reasonably known for the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained through a commercial mail receiving agency [“CMRA”], service of process may be effected on the first delivery attempt by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint with the commercial mail receiving agency in the manner described in subdivision (d) of Section 17538.5 of the Business and Professions Code.”  Section 17538.5(d) provides that “[u]pon receipt of any process for any mailbox service customer the CMRA owner or operator shall …. within five days after receipt, send all documents by first class mail, to the last known home or personal address of the mail receiving service customer.”   The Entity Defendants argue the CMRA here failed to mail the documents to their last known home or personal address, within five days after receipt.  The Entity Defendants submit the declaration of the CMRA owner which attests neither he nor any of his employees mailed a copy of the summons and complaint.  (Defendants’ Rieder Decl. ¶5.)  Plaintiff argues the declaration was obtained under duress because counsel threatened to take Rieder to court if he did not sign.  (Plaintiff’s Rieder Decl. ¶7.)  Rieder submits a new declaration which essentially states that he did not mail a copy of the summons and complaint but he does not know if any of his employees mailed a copy of the summons and complaint.  (Id.)  Plaintiff asks the Court to infer that the summons and complaint were actually mailed by the CMRA employee.  (Opp. at 4:6.) The Entity Defendants rely on Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358 which held that plaintiff’s service was deficient where plaintiff had not established compliance with § 17538.5(d).  There, a declaration from the CMRA employee stated that the documents delivered were placed in the customer’s mailbox within the required 48 hours; however, the CMRA employee did not mail the documents to the customer’s address by first class mail within the required five day period.  Instead, the documents were mailed twenty (20) days after receipt of the documents.  Thus, the Kremerman court found that the trial court erred when it concluded that service was proper.  (Id. at 373-374.) Kremerman is dispositive.  As in Kremerman, there is a declaration from the CMRA owner saying he did not mail the summons and complaint.  Whether obtained through duress or otherwise, the CMRA owner has not deviated from this testimony.  This is sufficient to rebut the presumption of proper service.          Plaintiff argues that even if the CMRA did not mail the summons and complaint, the Court should overlook this failure because the Entity Defendants received actual notice.  As long as the defendant receives actual notice of the lawsuit, substantial compliance with the Code provisions governing service of summons will generally be held sufficient.  (Pasadena Medi-Center Associates, 9 Cal.3d at 778.)  However, concluding that Plaintiff substantially complied with §415.20(c) without the CMRA’s requisite mailing, would run counter to the holding in Kremerman, discussed above.   Plaintiff next argues that the Entity Defendants waived objections to service of summons by generally appearing in this action.  On August 29, 2023, Baboli and Entity Defendants filed a notice of appearance in this action.  There was no indication in the notice of appearance that Entity Defendants were only specially appearing.  “A general appearance by a party is equivalent to personal service of summons on such party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §410.50 subd.(a).)  “A general appearance can make up for a complete failure to serve a summons.”  (Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1145.).  “A general appearance operates as a consent to jurisdiction of the person, dispensing with the requirement of service of process, and curing defects in service.”  (Id.)  A defendant makes a general appearance “when an attorney gives¿notice of appearance for the defendant." (Code Civ. Proc. §1014.)  Accordingly, because the Entity Defendants made a general appearance, they are deemed to have been properly served. The Entity Defendants argue they did not make a general appearance because their notice of appearance stated it “shall not constitute a waiver of any substantive or procedural challenge to the Complaint.”  However, this statement nowhere addresses challenges to the service of the Complaint; it only preserves objections to the Complaint itself.       The Court next addresses the Entity Defendants’ argument that default judgment is improper because their liability depends on Baboli’s liability.  Code Civ. Proc. §579 makes provision for the entry of more than one judgment in contested cases when a several judgment may be entered.  The section reads: “In an action against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment is proper.” “Although a several judgment may be entered against one defendant there will be cases in which there is also joint liability.  In such cases, the court would exercise great care in proceeding under¿§579 to avoid rendering judgment against one defendant upon what might be a joint or joint and several liability with another defendant as to whom the case had not been tried.  In the trial which followed the second defendant might be found to be under no liability, and there would be conflicting judgments outstanding.”  (AMF Pinspotters, Inc. v. Peek (1970) 6 Cal.App.3d 443, 446.)  Here, there is a possibility of inconsistent judgments.  The Entity Defendants are California corporations, and Baboli is the sole remaining corporate officer of the Entity Defendants.  If Baboli is found not liable for any of the tortious acts alleged by Plaintiff, then the Entity Defendants must also be found not liable because there are no other principals or corporate officers that could have acted on behalf of the Entity Defendants.  Plaintiff does not argue otherwise.  Given this possibility, the Court will stay enforcement of the default judgment until the case against Baboli is concluded.   Mirabile v. Smith (1953) 119 Cal.App.2d 685 is instructive.  There, the plaintiff assignee brought an action against the defaulting defendant and other co-defendant copartners upon a contract for the sale and delivery of matches, which were to be delivered at stated intervals.  The municipal court held that the defaulting defendant waived his right to insist upon a stay of proceedings until the action was tried as to his co-defendants.  The appellate court held the judge was prevented from entering the default judgment until the determination of the action on its merits insofar as it affected the defaulting defendant’s liability as a member of the partnership because under¿Cal. Civ. Code § 1431, the judgment sought to be obtained was a joint, and not a several judgment, and a grave injustice would have resulted if the municipal court proceeded to enter judgment against the defaulting defendant and the other answering co-defendants established that the debt had been paid.   So it is here.  There is a risk of multiple and conflicting judgments as Baboli and the Entity Defendants’ liability is joint and several.  A stay will prevent the possibility that judgment will be enforced against the Entity Defendants while Baboli may be found not liable for the same acts on which liability against the Entity Defendants is based.    CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the Entity Defendants’ motion to set aside default and default judgment.  The default judgment against the Entity Defendants is stayed pending completion of the proceedings against Baboli.     DATED:  June 18, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 


   Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   NETWORK EXPERTS, INC.,   Plaintiff, v.  BEVERLY HILLS IT SERVICES, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV00517     Hearing Date:  June 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT MOSTAFA BABOLI’S    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-   COMPLAINT   BACKGROUND  This is theft of trade secrets case.  Plaintiff Network Experts provides computer sales. consulting and IT services.  Defendant Mostafa Karbalei Ahmad Baboli (“Baboli”) was employed by Plaintiff to serve as an IT specialist/director.   Baboli later formed Beverly Hills IT Services and Beverly Hills Services (the “Entity Defendants” and together with Baboli, “Defendants”) which then contracted with Plaintiff to perform IT services.  Baboli informed Plaintiff that the Entity Defendants would contract with Plaintiff as an independent contractor, servicing Plaintiff’s clients, while also servicing the Entity Defendants’ own clients as well.   Plaintiff claims Defendants misappropriated its trade secrets to poach Plaintiff’s clients.  Plaintiff also claims Baboli borrowed $9,540 pursuant to a promissory note which he has failed to repay.   The operative complaint (the “First Action”) alleges claims for (1) misappropriation of trade secrets, (2) breach of promissory note, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of duty of loyalty, (5) unfair competition, (6) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (8) conversion and (9) trespass to chattel. This hearing is on Baboli’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Doris M. Boudaie (Plaintiff’s CEO, CFO, Director and Agent for Service of Process), and Kourosh Isaac Boudaie (Plaintiff’s Secretary and Director).  The proposed cross-complaint includes claims for (1) breach of employment contract, (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud, (4) failure to pay all regular and minimum wages earned, (5) failure to pay all overtime wages earned, (6) failure to provide rest periods, (7) failure to pay all wages upon discharge, (8) failure to furnish accurate wage statements, (9) failure to provide paid sick leave, (10) failure to secure worker’s compensation insurance, (11) misclassification as independent contractor, (12) violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §17200, (13) wrongful constructive termination, (14) intentional interference with contractual relations, (15) defamation and (16) a claim for civil penalties pursuant to the Private Attorney General Act of 2004 (“PAGA”).   Baboli argues these claims are compulsory as they arise from the same or similar transactions and occurrences alleged in Plaintiff’s operative complaint.  Baboli originally filed the cross-complaint as an independent action in LASC Case No. 23STCV31366 (the “Second Action”).  Network Experts filed a demurrer, arguing Baboli’s claims are compulsory counterclaims and must be heard in this action.  The Court in the Second Action agreed with Network Experts, sustained the demurrer without leave to amend, and dismissed the case without prejudice on May 6, 2024. LEGAL STANDARD Code Civ. Proc. §428.50 states, “(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial. (c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).¿ Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”¿ A cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)¿ A related cause of action is “. . . a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ Failure to plead a compulsory cross-claim will bar defendant from asserting it in any later lawsuit.  (AL Holding Co. v. O’Brien & Hicks, Inc. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 1310, 1313-1314.) The court may grant leave to file a cross-complaint “if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)  There is a split of authority as to whether courts have any discretion to deny a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-claim.  One view is that the requirement of “good faith” gives courts a “modicum of discretion” but the law strongly favors granting leave.  (Sidney v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710, 718; Gherman¿v.¿Colburn¿(1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 544, 559)  The other view is that courts have no discretion to deny absent findings of bad faith based on substantial evidence.  (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS The Court sustains Objection Nos. 1-2 to the Declaration of Armin Seyedmahdi.   DISCUSSION  Baboli argues that his cross-complaint is compulsory as it is related to Plaintiff’s complaint.  The Court agrees.   The Court in the Second Action expressly found that the claims asserted by Baboli in the Second Action, which are the same claims he seeks to assert here, are compulsory counterclaims and should be heard in the First Action.  (Ex. B to Alvali Decl.)  The Court noted in its decision the following: “Defendant Network Experts is correct that Plaintiff’s claims against it are compulsory counterclaims properly brought in the earlier filed action, LASC Case No. 23SMCV00517, Network Experts, Inc. v. Beverly Hills IT.”    “But the claims not only arise from the same relationship, but they also concern identical subject matters – Baboli’s alleged initiation of the ‘independent contractor’ relationship with Defendant through various intermediary entities, Baboli’s termination under a cloud of either illness or wrongful client-poaching, and the parties’ conflicting efforts to maintain clients in what Network Experts characterized as his ‘territory.’”   “The facts alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint reveal a more than substantial relationship with the claims and facts underlying Network Experts’ other, earlier filed action.  This action should have been brought as a cross-complaint.”   (Ex. B to Alvali Decl.)  Plaintiff also agrees Baboli’s cross-claims are compulsory and belong in the First Action, as it made this argument in its demurrer in the Second Action.  While Plaintiff points out that the proposed cross-complaint includes additional allegations of fact and three new causes of action not asserted in the Second Action, Plaintiff does not argue that any of these “new” allegations or claims are based on different facts than the First Action and are not also compulsory.   Because Defendant’s cross-claims are compulsory, the Court is required to grant leave in the absence of bad faith.  Plaintiff argues Defendant is bringing the cross-claims to harm Plaintiff, its principals, officers and employees.  Plaintiff points to Defendant’s statements to an employee of Plaintiff that “I will sue all of you,” “I will make sure none of you will have a job next year,” Plaintiff’s “business will go down.”  (Seyedmahdi Decl. ¶5.)  But every cross-complaint will harm the cross-defendant in some way, as it is seeking damages from cross-defendant.  That alone cannot justify a showing of bad faith or a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint could never be granted.     Plaintiff also argues that Baboli chose to file claims he clearly knew were compulsory in a separate action in a different courthouse in an attempt to forum shop after the Court denied the motion to set aside default as to Baboli’s companies.  This argument has merit.  The claims in the First and Second Actions clearly arise from the same relationship, and it is not credible for Baboli to claim he had a good faith basis to believe they were not.  Baboli could have, and should have, filed the cross-claims along with his answer to the complaint in this case, but he chose not to.  Instead, he filed the Second Action before a different judge after the Court issued an adverse ruling against his companies, in a clear attempt to forum shop.  For these reasons, the Court finds bad faith and declines to grant Baboli leave to file a cross-complaint.    CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Defendant Mostafa Baboli’s motion for leave to file cross-complaint.     DATED:  June 18, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 
