This is an employment action.  Defendant Dart Warehouse Corporation, joined by Os4Labor LLC and Personnel Staffing Group, seeks to compel arbitration of this matter on the basis of an arbitration agreement purportedly executed by Plaintiff Jessica Diaz as a component of her employment.  Plaintiff argues that (1) there is not sufficient evidence of an agreement to arbitrate between the parties; (2) the FAA does not apply; (3) several claims cannot be arbitrated due to EFAA; (4) the subject arbitration agreement is unconscionable; and (5) the representative PAGA claim should not be stayed.  The subject agreement includes a delegation clause.  “Parties to an arbitration agreement may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement.”  (Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 239.)   “There are two prerequisites for a delegation clause to be effective. First, the language of the clause must be clear and unmistakable. [Citation.] Second, the delegation must not be revocable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability.”  (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891-892.)  Previously, the Court ruled as follows.  Here, the language of the delegation clause is clear and unmistakable: “the arbitrator, and not any federal, state, or local court, shall have exclusive authority to resolve any dispute relating to the formation, enforceability, applicability, or interpretation of this Agreement, including without limitation any claim that it is void or voidable. . . . [T]he parties voluntarily waive the right to have a court determine the enforceability of this Agreement.” Further, Plaintiff has failed to establish the substantive unconscionability of the delegation clause itself.Thus, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  The arbitrator is to determine arbitrability.  This action is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)  The objections are overruled as irrelevant.   Based on oral argument, however, the Court continued the Motion for supplemental briefing.  The Court ordered that supplemental briefs be filed by August 30, 2024. The supplemental briefing relates to a new case raised at oral argument—Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1186—to argue that the subject delegation clause is not clear and unmistakable.  Defendant argues that it was improper to raise this case for the first time at oral argument and that, in any case, Jack is distinguishable.The Court agrees that Jack is distinguishable because therein the provision that created ambiguity, a “poison pill” provision, was part of a subsection within the arbitration/delegation clause, whereas, here, there is an entire arbitration agreement with separate provisions.  More importantly, read in context, the only aspects of the agreement that relate to the Court’s power with regard to enforceability actually pertain to collective claims, which are not at issue here.  Thus, the Court’s conclusions are unchanged.The Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.  The arbitrator is to determine arbitrability.  This action is stayed pending the resolution of arbitration.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.) Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 