 On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff Seneca Insurance Company, Inc. filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Blackboard Specialty Insurance Company for (1) equitable subrogation, (2) bad faith refusal to indemnify, and (3) equitable contribution for indemnity.   Plaintiff seeks “to recover from Blackboard due to its wrongful disclaimer of coverage to its insured, Rafael Iryami [ ], plus interest, costs, and attorney’s fees related to the underlying action styled as Margaratia Diaz Rosendo, et al. v. Rafael Iryami, Case No. 19STCV39491, in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles [ ]. Seneca was forced to step in and pay Blackboard’s share toward settlement in order to protect the interest of their common insured, Iryami, due to Blackboard’s recalcitrance.”DemurrerDefendant Blackboard Specialty Insurance Company now demurs to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts. When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Defendant first argues that the subrogation claim fails because both parties are primary carriers and “Seneca cannot allege that it has paid a loss for which it is not primarily liable and compensated Iryami for losses in which Blackboard was primarily liable.”“Equitable contribution is a loss-sharing procedure. It lies where several insurers insure the same risk at the same level (e.g., all primary insurers) and one pays the entire loss. That insurer may seek equitable contribution from the others to obtain reimbursement for a portion of what it has paid. . . .”  (California Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation (The Rutter Group 2020) Contribution Between Insurers, Ch. 8-B.)  “The right of subrogation is purely derivative. An insurer entitled to subrogation is in the same position as an assignee of the insured's claim, and succeeds only to the rights of the insured. The subrogated insurer is said to ‘ “stand in the shoes” ’ of its insured, because it has no greater rights than the insured and is subject to the same defenses assertable against the insured. Thus, an insurer cannot acquire by subrogation anything to which the insured has no rights, and may claim no rights which the insured does not have.”  (Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v. Maryland Cas. Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1292.)“[W]here different insurance carriers cover differing risks and liabilities, they may proceed against each other for reimbursement by subrogation rather than by contribution.”  (Reliance Nat. Indem. Co. v. Gen. Star Indem. Co. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1063, 1078.)Here, the Complaint does not allege that Plaintiff and Defendant are primary insurers covering the same risk.  Instead, it alleges, “[t]he insured, Rafael Iryami, suffered a loss in the Underlying Lawsuit for which Blackboard is primarily liable and for which Seneca is not primarily liable. . . . Seneca did not owe any indemnity coverage for the Underlying Lawsuit.”  Meanwhile, the contribution claim is pleaded in the alternative based on uncertainty as to legal outcome: “should it be determined that Seneca owes indemnity for the settlement, Seneca paid more than its fair share because Blackboard’s limits and time on risk were twice Seneca’s limits and time on risk.”Defendant contends the two policies are the same, but as Plaintiff points out, “if Seneca can prove that the insured’s knowledge of the relevant injuries and damage predated its 2019 policy but not Blackboard’s 2016 policy, then . . . Seneca will owe no indemnity under its 2019 Policy and ‘[Seneca] shall be entitled to recover on its equitable subrogation claim.’ [ ] Seneca’s allegations in this regard must be assumed to be true for purposes of demurrer . . . .”  In Reply, Defendant argues that “[w]hile Seneca asserts in their complaint that the damages and knowledge of those damages occurred prior to the commencement of its 2019 policy and thus Seneca owed no indemnity obligation to Iryami (Complaint, at ¶¶ 38, 45), Seneca provides no factual support for these assertions.”  The ultimate facts, however, have been pleaded, and this is not a summary judgment hearing.   Defendant next argues that the subrogation claim fails because it is a derivative claim and the insured has no claim because he suffered no damages to the extent that Plaintiff paid the settlement.  This has been flatly rejected.  (See, e.g., Interstate Fire & Cas. Ins. Co. v. Cleveland Wrecking Co. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 23, 36 [“Cleveland urges that Webcor does not have an existing cause of action against Cleveland because Webcor has already been fully compensated by Interstate. This argument is of course wrong . . . because it is directly contradicted by the wording of the subrogation element itself. The element . . . asks whether the insured has a cause of action against the defendant which it could have asserted ‘had it not been compensated for its loss by the insurer.’ ”].)Lastly, Defendant challenges the second cause of action because a “claim for the breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is limited to and between the parties to the contract at issue.”  This too lacks merit; indeed, “because Plaintiff's implied covenant claim . . . is rooted in equitable subrogation . . . privity of contract is not necessary since subrogation looks to the nature of insurance as a contract of indemnity as opposed to any relation of contract or privity between insurers.”  (Pub. Serv. Mut. Ins. Co. v. Liberty Surplus Ins. Corp. (E.D. Cal. 2014) 51 F.Supp.3d 937, 948–49.) Thus, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Motion to StrikeDefendant also seeks to strike the Complaint’s references to attorneys’ fees.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.) The Motion is denied because Brandt fees may be available for a bad faith claim.  (Essex Ins. Co. v. Five Star Dye House, Inc. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1252, 1255.)  The amount of fees is an issue for the future.Pro Hac Vice Plaintiff seeks pro hac vice admission for Tyler W. Thull. The Application is granted because it meets all requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40. Plaintiff to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 