  Case Number:  20STCV24727    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



Aurora Prado, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
National
  Seating and Mobility, Inc., et al.
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV24727 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES TO DEFENDANT KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN, INC. (SET ONE)
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
Wednesday,
  December 13, 2023



 
          INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Aurora Prado alleges that on July
7, 2018, she was walking up the ramp to her residence when the unsecured ramp
slid backwards.  Plaintiff lost her
balance and fell to the ground, sustaining serious injuries.  Plaintiff alleges the ramp was installed by
Defendant National Seating and Mobility, Inc. (“National”).
          On July 1,
2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant National alleging (1)
negligence; and (2) neglect-Welf. & Inst. C. §15610.57.  On February 10, 2021, Defendant National
filed an answer to the complaint.
          On April 2,
2021, Plaintiff filed a voluntary dismissal of the 2nd cause of
action for “Neglect – Welf. & Inst. C. §15610.”  
          On February
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment naming Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc. (“Kaiser”) as DOE 1.  On April 21,
2023, Kaiser filed an answer to the complaint. 

          On October
24, 2023, the Court held an Informal Discovery Conference was held.  The parties were unable to resolve their
dispute regarding Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories 15 and 16 propounded on Kaiser.  
          On November
14, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further responses.  On November 30, 2023, Defendant Kaiser filed
an opposition to the motion to compel. 
On April 2, 2021, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
          LEGAL
PRINCIPLES
          Legal
Standard — Compel Further Responses
CCP §2030.300
(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:
          (1)
An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
          (2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.
          (3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.
(b)(1) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(2) In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.
(c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.
(d) The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(e) If a party then fails to obey an
order compelling further response to interrogatories, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
If a timely motion to compel has been
filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully answer the interrogatories and RFAs. (Coy v. Sup.Ct.
(Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221; Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct.
(Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 

ANALSYIS
          The Contested Discovery
          SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 15: State the amount of money paid by YOU to NSM for ANY
reason(s) over the ten-year period before the INCIDENT. 
          OBJECTIONS
TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 15: Objection is made to this interrogatory on the
following grounds: (1) Painfully vague, ambiguous and overbroad as to time and
scope and seeks information not relevant to the subject matter of this action
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
(2) not reasonably particularized as required by Code of Civil Procedure
§2031.240; (3) incomprehensible as drafted; (4) unreasonable invasion of
privacy, seeks information protected from disclosure under the United States
and California Constitution (Article I, Section I), and improperly calls for
the release of private and/or proprietary information; (5) the burden of
production is outweighed by any conceivable probative value; (6) the
appropriate forum for the litigation of this dispute is arbitration as provided
by contractual agreement. The Superior Court lacks statutory or common law
authority to permit this interrogatory for any purpose and lacks jurisdiction
to enter any orders in connection with underlying discovery request(s)
presented by this interrogatory
          SPECIAL
INTERROGATORY NO. 16: State the amount of money paid by YOU to NSM for ANY
reason(s) since the INCIDENT.
          OBJECTIONS
TO INTERROGATORY NO. 16: Objection is made to this interrogatory on the
following grounds: (1) Painfully vague, mbiguous and overbroad as to time and
scope and seeks information not relevant to the subject matter of this action
and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence;
(2) not reasonably particularized as required by Code of Civil Procedure
§2031.240; (3) incomprehensible as          
drafted; (4) unreasonable invasion of privacy, seeks
information protected from disclosure under the United States and California
Constitution (Article I, Section I), and improperly calls for the release of
private and/or proprietary information; (5) the burden of production is
outweighed by any conceivable probative value; (6) the appropriate forum for
the litigation of this dispute is arbitration as provided by contractual
agreement. The Superior Court lacks statutory or common law authority to permit
this interrogatory for any purpose and lacks jurisdiction to enter any orders
in connection with underlying discovery request(s) presented by this
interrogatory
          Parties’
Positions
Plaintiff moves to compel further
responses from Kaiser to Special Interrogatories Nos. 15 and 16.  Plaintiff argues Kaiser’s objections are
meritless and the requested discovery is relevant to Plaintiff’s allegation of
an agency relationship between Kaiser and National and Defendant’s Fourth
Affirmative Defense based on the independent negligence of third parties.  Plaintiff also argues the discovery requested
is relevant to bias and witness credibility. 
Plaintiff argues a number of the objections are so patently meritless,
they were asserted in bad faith.  These
objections include “appropriate forum for the litigation of this dispute is
arbitration” and “not reasonably particularized as required by Code of Civil
Procedure §2031.240.”  Plaintiff argues
CCP §2031.240 does not even apply to interrogatories.  Plaintiff asks that the Court impose
sanctions in the amount of $2,805 against Plaintiff and her attorney of record.
Defendant argues that:” (1) the
requests seek irrelevant private and confidential financial information; (2) it
and National have already confirmed in discovery that there is no agency
relationship between them; (3) it has offered to produce the supplier agreement
between Defendant and National to confirm the lack of an agency relationship;
(4) Plaintiff’s request for 15 ½ years of financial information is unjustified
by Plaintiff’s claim that she is entitled to the discovery to establish bias or
agency or to respond to Defendant’s Fourth Affirmative Defense based on the
independent negligence of third parties; and (5) Plaintiff’s entire action is ultimately
meritless because she should have been provided with a modular, fixed ramp as
opposed to the portable ramp in 2017 and such a modular, fixed ramp is not
covered by Plaintiff’s Medicare/Medi-Cal coverage.  
In Reply, Plaintiff argues corporations
do not have a right of privacy, which only applies to natural persons.  Further Plaintiff argues that (1) Defendant
fails to establish that any privacy right would trump Plaintiff’s right to
discovery.; (2) she is entitled to discovery regarding the agency question, and
she is not required to accept Defendants’ position that there is no agency, nor
is she required to accept Defendants’ position that the supplier agreement
negates any allegation of agency; (3) the relationship between Kaiser and
National is an open question of fact and she is entitled to conduct discovery
regarding it; (4) Defendant raises irrelevant points to the discovery dispute,
such as Plaintiff’s Medi-Cal coverage.  In
summary, Plaintiff argues the Court should dispose of Defendant’s “garbage”
objections with an order compelling further responses.  
Ruling
Motion to Compel is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part
Defendant’s primary argument is that
the special interrogatories are irrelevant. 
For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably
assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539,
1546.) Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence
at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)
The payments Defendant Kaiser made to
National could be a factor in assessing bias and, as discussed below, to a far
lesser degree, determining the nature of their relationship, which is at issue
based on both the complaint and the Fourth Affirmative Defense.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants are agents of
one another and alleges that Defendants are liable for each other’s acts based
on Respondeat Superior. (Complaint, ¶¶4 and 8.) 
Defendant Kaiser claims in its Fourth Affirmative Defense that Plaintiff’s
injuries are the independent conduct of third parties who are not its agents or
employees.  (Kaiser Answer, ¶6.)  Whether National, the entity that allegedly
provided the ramp, was an independent party or an agent of Kaiser is therefore
relevant to the Fourth Affirmative Defense. 

Moreover, Plaintiff is not required to
accept Kaiser’s and National’s discovery responses denying existence of an
agency relationship.  Plaintiff is
entitled to conduct her own discovery into the issue and make an argument, if a
good faith basis exists to do, based thereon, nor is she required to limit her
discovery to the supplier agreement. 
Plaintiff is entitled to test the representations made by Defendants regarding
their own liability.   
Defendant Kaiser’s objection that the
financial information is confidential and private is unpersuasive.  A corporate entity has limited privacy
rights. (Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770, 797.)  Where the corporation is an actual named
defendant and the issues raised by the litigation involve the organization and
ownership of the corporation, the interest in justice overrides the weak
privacy interest at stake. (Id.) 
Defendant Kaiser fails to establish that the weak privacy interest it has
in the payments it has made to National override Plaintiff’s interest in
conducting discovery on the relevant issue of Kaiser and National’s
relationship.  This is especially true
given that a Stipulated Protective Order is on file to limit disclosure and use
of the information produced in discovery. 

That all said, while the relevance of
the information as to bias is reasonably clear, albeit as discussed below, not fully
warranted to the degree requested, the Court is not clear how that information
goes to establishing an agency relationship. 
So, to the extent the requested information is relevant, it is of
tenuous relevance, albeit sufficient at this point to warrant limited response.[1]  
In contrast to most of Kaiser’s
objections, Kaiser’s objection based on overbreadth is meritorious. [2]
 As stated above, the nature of Kaiser’s
relationship with National is relevant; but, that does not open the door to
unlimited discovery regarding that relationship.  See Calcor Space Facility v. Superior
Court (1997) 43 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.  The
incident occurred in July 2018, and the ramp was installed “several months”
before the incident.  (Complaint,
¶¶10-11.)  Discovery into the last ten
years of Kaiser and National’s relationship is unjustified given the alleged
injury and wrongdoing.  As such, the
Court hereby limits the scope of Special Interrogatory No. 15 to payments five
years before the incident and Special Interrogatory No. 16 is limited to two
years after the incident.  
In light of Plaintiff’s partial
victory, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied.  Defendant acted with substantial
justification in opposing the motion, though Defendant is hereby admonished to
be careful in its discovery responses (see footnote 2).  
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Defendant Kaiser to serve further responses
within 20 days to Special Interrogatories 15 and 16 in conformity with this
order.  
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED in part and DENIED in
part.  Defendant is ordered to serve
further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 15 and 16, limiting responses
to five years before the incident and two years after the incident.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
DENIED.  
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
    Dated this 22nd day of July 2022
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


