 Case Number:  23STCV27077    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  27  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



JORDAN SAUNDERS et al.,
 
Plaintiffs, 
vs. 
 
SETH MEYERS, et al.,  
 
Defendants. 
 
 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
)
)


    CASE NO.: 22STCV27077 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
 
Dept.
  27 
1:30
  p.m. 
December
  13, 2023 




 


)


 











 
I.           
BACKGROUND
On August 19, 2022,
Plaintiffs George Heinen (“Heinen”), Jordan Saunders (“Saunders”), and Damon
Jackson (“Jackson”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
Defendants Seth Meyers (“Meyers”) and Does 1 to 20, asserting two causes of
action for (1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence.  
On
November 13, 2023, Plaintiffs’ attorney Robert B. Gibson, Esq. (“Counsel”) of Gibson
& Hughes moved to be relieved as counsel. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“The
attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before
or after judgment or final determination, as follows: 1) upon the consent of
both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 2)
upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney,
after notice from one to the other.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 284.)¿ 
Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, an attorney moving to be relieved as
counsel must do the following:¿ 
1.   File a
notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051));¿ 
2.   Submit
a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052));¿¿ 
3.   Serve
the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client
and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and¿¿ 
4.   Lodge a
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿ 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The
court should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal
can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.”¿ (Ramirez
v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
First, Counsel
properly filed a notice of motion and motion directed to Plaintiffs. 
Second,
Counsel properly submitted a declaration stating why he filed a motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2). 
Third, Counsel properly served the notice of motion
and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other
parties who have appeared in the case. 
Fourth, Counsel properly lodged the proposed order relieving
counsel. 
However, the declaration and proposed order do not state the dates
of the upcoming hearings. They appear to state old hearing dates. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Thus,
the Court denies Counsel’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel without prejudice. 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
 
Dated
this 13th day of December 2023



 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 
 