 Case Number:  23STCV00903    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



GABRIEL ARELLANO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
ETHOS
  dba ROMANCING D’WEST, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV00903
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  13, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ethos dba Romancing D’West,
Romancing D’West Inc., and Maryam Manzoori Fard (“Defendants”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Garbriel Arellano (“Plaintiff”)   
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a slip and fall in which Plaintiff alleges that he tripped
over an unmarked clothing mannequin in front of 916 Santee Street, Los Angeles,
CA 90015 (the “Premises”). 
On
January 17, 2023, Plaintiff Gabriel Arellano (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Ethos dba Romancing D’West, Romancing D’West, Maryam
Manzoori Fard (“Fard”), and Does 1 to 20 (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) General Negligence; and (2) Premises Liability. 
On
July 14, 2023, Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike as to the
complaint, both of which were set for hearing on August 14, 2023. 
On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; and (3) Alter Ego
Doctrine. 
On
September 1, 2023, Defendants filed and served a demurrer to the first, second,
and third causes of action in the FAC, as well as a motion to strike portions
of the FAC. On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrer
and motion to strike. No reply brief was filed. Any reply brief was required to
have been filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.(b).)   
 
 
 
II.         
DEMURRER
General Principles
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)
“[A] demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which
the court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or
conclusions of law or fact.” (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations plead to survive a
demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Ibid.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245).  
Meet and Confer 
          “Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement
can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “A determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or
sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The
meet and confer requirement has not been met. Counsel for Defendants only sent
a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel outlining the purported deficiencies in the FAC
and did not meet in person or by telephone. (Avellaneda Decl., ¶ 3 and Exhibit
A.) Plaintiff’s counsel then informed Defendants’ counsel via e-mail that
Plaintiff would not amend the FAC. (Id., ¶ 4 and Exhibit B.) The Court
will still assess the demurrer on its merits; however, the Court reminds the
parties to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. 

Analysis
Issue No.1: First Cause of Action—Negligence

          Defendants
contend that the first cause of action fails because Plaintiff has failed to
allege that a breach of a duty to exercise ordinary care was a substantial
factor in bringing about Plaintiff’s harm. Plaintiff asserts that the first
cause of action is sufficiently alleged. 
          In order to
state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) “A plaintiff
meets the causation element by showing that (1) the defendant’s breach of its
duty to exercise ordinary care was a substantial factor in bringing about
plaintiff’s harm, and (2) there is no rule of law relieving the defendant of
liability.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “These
are factual questions for the jury to decide, except in cases in which the
facts as to causation are undisputed.” (Ibid.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence is sufficiently alleged.
(FAC, ¶¶ 12-18, 21-29.) In particular, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that
Defendants’ conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. (Id.)  
          The Court
therefore OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendants to the first cause of action in
the FAC. 
Issue No.2: Second Cause of
Action—Premises Liability 
          Defendants contend
that Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege causation. Defendants also contend
that the Plaintiff has failed to plead any facts showing that Defendants had
the required level of notice to support any breach of a duty owed and,
therefore, the second cause of action fails.  
           “The elements of a cause of action for
premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach,
causation, and damages.” (Castellon v.
U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) “Courts have . . . held that
where the plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous condition to
prove the owner’s negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of showing that the
owner had notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it.” (Ortega v.
Kmart Corp., supra, 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206.) 
          The Court
finds that the second cause of action for premises liability is sufficiently
alleged. Plaintiff has alleged the elements of breach, duty, and causation.
(FAC, ¶¶ 12-18, 30-36.) Pursuant to the second cause of action, Plaintiff has
specifically alleged that Defendants’ breach of their duty “was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm.” (Id., ¶ 34.) Thus, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged causation as to the second cause of
action. 
          The Court
also rejects Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff has failed to plead facts
showing that Defendants had the required level of notice. The FAC specifically
alleges that “Defendants breached their duty of care by allowing and creating a
dangerous condition, specifically, an unmarked clothing mannequin on the ground
blocking the sidewalk/walking area in front of the Premises that created a
reasonably foreseeable trip hazard for their guests and invitees.” (Id.,
¶ 32.) Plaintiff “alleges that Defendants had actual and/or constructive notice
of the trip hazard.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that he “was harmed by the
dangerous trip hazard created by the unmarked clothing mannequin on the ground
blocking the sidewalk/walkway area in front of the Premises.” (Id., ¶
33.) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that
Defendants had actual and constructive notice of the alleged trip hazard. 
          While
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to engage in communication with any
agents of Defendants after the alleged fall, and there are no allegations that
Plaintiff called 911 after the alleged fall, Defendants cite to no legal
authority to support the argument that such omissions lead to a finding of no
actual or constructive notice. 
          The Court
therefore OVERRULES the demurrer of Defendants to the second cause of action in
the FAC.
Issue No.3: Third Cause of Action—Alter
Ego Doctrine
          Defendants
contend that the third cause of action does not state a claim of liability
against Defendant Fard.[1]
Plaintiff contends that he has sufficiently pleaded alter ego allegations
against Defendant Fard. 
          “A claim
against a defendant, based on the alter ego theory, is not a claim for
substantive relief, e.g., breach of contract or to set aside a fraudulent
conveyance, but rather, procedural, i.e., to disregard the corporate entity as
a distinct defendant and to hold the alter ego individuals liable on the
obligations of the corporation where the corporate form is being used by the
individuals to escape personal liability, sanction a fraud, or promote
injustice.” (Hennessey’s Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co. (1988)
204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1359.) “Piercing the corporate veil is not itself an
independent . . . cause of action, but rather is a means of imposing liability
on an underlying cause of action.” (Peacock v. Thomas (1996) 516 U.S.
349, 354.) 
          Although not
raised as an argument in the moving papers, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for Alter Ego Doctrine is improper. Alter ego is not an
independent cause of action under Peacock v. Thomas, supra, 516
U.S. 349 and Hennessey’s Tavern, Inc. v. American Air Filter Co., supra,
204 Cal.App.3d 1351.
          Even if alter
ego were a standalone cause of action, the allegations of the third cause of
action would be insufficient as currently alleged because they are much too
conclusory. (FAC, ¶¶ 40-41.) Pursuant to the third cause of action, Plaintiff
has failed to allege specific facts that “the organization of the corporation
is in some manner fraudulent or prompted by dishonesty, or that the corporation
committed or intended to commit a fraud, or that injustice will be done if the
corporate entity is not disregarded.” (Judelson v. American Metal Bearing
Co. (1948) 89 Cal.App.2d 256, 263.) 
          The Court
therefore SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendants to the third cause of action in
the FAC without leave to amend as Alter Ego Doctrine is not a standalone cause
of action. 
III.    MOTION TO
STRIKE
          General
Principles
“Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) A court may
“[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
Meet and Confer  
          “Before
filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) “A determination by the court that the
meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny
the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The meet and
confer requirement has not been met. Counsel for Defendants only sent a letter
to Plaintiff’s counsel outlining the purported deficiencies in the FAC and did
not meet in person or by telephone. (Avellaneda Decl., ¶ 3 and Exhibit A.)
Plaintiff’s counsel then informed Defendants’ counsel via e-mail that Plaintiff
would not amend the FAC. (Id., ¶ 4 and Exhibit B.) The Court will still
assess the motion to strike on its merits; however, the Court reminds the
parties to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure. 
Analysis
          Defendants
seek to strike alter ego allegations from the FAC. Plaintiff contends that he
has properly pleaded alter ego against Defendant Fard.
          “A notice of
motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought
to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause
of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must be numbered
consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322, subd. (a).) 
          Defendants’
notice of motion states that Defendants are seeking “an order striking portions
of the First Amended Complaint . . . wherein it alleges [Defendant] Fard is personally
liable for a fall that allegedly occurred outside Ethos’ store which [Defendant]
Fard partially owns. Defendants move to strike it from the entirety of the
complaint.” (Motion to Strike at 1:28-2:4.) 
The Court assumes that Defendants are
moving to strike the entire third cause of action from the FAC. In the
opposition to the Motion to Strike, Plaintiff does not allege that the motion
is procedurally improper and argues that he has adequately alleged an alter ego
theory against Defendant Fard. 
          Due to the
Court sustaining the demurrer to the third cause of action in the FAC without
leave to amend as indicated above on the grounds that Alter Ego Doctrine is not
an independent cause of action, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike with 20
days leave to amend. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of
Defendants to the first and second causes of action in the FAC.
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of
Defendants to the third cause of action in the FAC without leave to amend. 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
strike with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving parties are ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 13th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


