 Case Number:  22STCV28644    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ANAIT KAZARYAN, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
BAZ
  MOHAMMAD NOMAIR, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV28644
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE   


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
December
  13, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Proposed Intervenor Infinity Select Insurance
Company (“Infinity”)   
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on September 23,
2020. On September 1, 2022, Plaintiff Anait Kazaryan (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Baz Mohammad Nomair (“Nomair”) and Does 1 to 10,
alleging causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle; and (2) General Negligence. 
On
October 18, 2022, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint substituting A-1
Auto Body, LLC (“A-1”) for Doe 1. On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service
which shows that Defendant A-1 was served with the summons and complaint on February
24, 2023 by substituted service. Plaintiff has not filed a proof of service
showing that service of the summons and complaint has been effectuated upon
Defendant Nomair. 
On
June 2, 2023, Infinity Select Insurance Company (“Infinity”) filed and served the
instant unopposed motion for leave to intervene on behalf of Defendants Nomair
and A-1 to assert denials, assert defenses, and to file a
complaint-in-intervention to answer the operative complaint (the “Motion”). The
Motion is unopposed. Any opposition to the Motion was required to have been
filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
The
Motion is made on the grounds that Infinity has a direct interest in the litigation
in this matter because its insureds, Defendants Nomair and A-1, have refused to
participate in their own defense in this matter.  
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“An intervention takes place when a
nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or proceeding
between other persons by . . . [u]niting with a defendant in resisting the
claims of a plaintiff.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (b)(2).) To intervene in
an action “[a] nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by
noticed motion or ex parte application.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)
“The petition shall include a copy of the proposed . . . answer in intervention
and set forth grounds upon which intervention rests.” (Ibid.) 
A nonparty must be allowed to intervene
if either of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) a provision of law
confers an unconditional right to intervene; or (2) the person seeking
intervention claims an interest related to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that
interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).)  A court has discretionary authority to allow
a nonparty to intervene “if the person has an interest in the matter in
litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against
both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Infinity contends that it has a direct
and immediate interest in the outcome of this litigation and its intervention
will not enlarge the issues in the case. 
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of Infinity Intervening
          “Pursuant to
section 387 the trial court has discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene
when the following factors are met: (1) the proper procedures have been
followed; (2) the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the action;
(3) the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the litigation; and (4) the
reasons for the intervention outweigh any opposition by the parties presently
in the action.” (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) When a nonparty insurer intervenes,
the nonparty insurer is deemed to not enlarge the issues in the case since the
insurer will almost certainly assert the same defenses as their insured. (Id.
at p. 388.) 
“An insurer’s right to intervene in an
action against the insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a
result of Insurance Code section 11580.” (Ibid.) “Section 11580 provides
that a judgment creditor may proceed directly against any liability insurance
covering the defendant, and obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the
amount of the policy limits.” (Ibid.) “[W]here the insurer may be
subject to a direct action under Insurance Code section 11580 by a judgment
creditor who has or will obtain a default judgment in a third party action
against the insured, intervention is appropriate.” (Ibid.)
“[I]ntervention by an insurer is permitted where the insurer remains liable for
any default judgment against the insured, and it has no means other than
intervention to litigate liability or damage issues.” (Id. at p. 385.) 
In support of the Motion, Infinity
presents the declaration of its counsel, Jessica Spinola (“Spinola”). Infinity
issued a Commercial Auto Policy to Defendants Nomair and A-1, which provided
liability coverage from February 29, 2020 to February 28, 2021 with a combined
single limit of $30,000 per accident. (Spinola Decl., ¶ 3 and Exhibit B.) Defendants
are the named defendants in Plaintiff’s complaint, which arises from a vehicle
accident that occurred on or about September 23, 2020. (Id., ¶ 2.) Defendant
Nomair is the organizer of Defendant A-1 according the company’s Articles of
Organization filed with the California Secretary of State. (Id., ¶ 4 and
Exhibit C.) Counsel has made previous attempts to locate and contact Defendant
Nomair in related cases, however, each attempt has been unsuccessful. (Id.,
¶ 7 and Exhibit E.)  Counsel attests that
the proofs of service filed with the Court indicate that Defendant Nomair was
served with the summons and complaint via substitute service on November 17,
2022, and Defendant A-1 was served with the summons and complaint by mail
substituted service on February 24, 2023.[1]
(Id., ¶ 8 and Exhibit F.) A private investigator was hired to attempt to
contact Defendant Nomair prior to filing the Motion, however, such efforts were
unsuccessful. (Id., ¶¶ 9-10.) Infinity seeks to intervene for the
purpose of asserting defenses to damages and liability. (Id., ¶ 12 and
Exhibit G.) 
          The Court
finds that allowing Infinity to intervene is appropriate. The Motion is
procedurally proper. Infinity is seeking to intervene in this action to protect
its own interests and that of Defendants. It follows that Infinity has a direct
and immediate interest in this action. Also, the Court finds that Infinity
intervening in this action will not enlarge the issues in this litigation. Infinity
is seeking to intervene due to Defendants’ non-responsiveness and the inability
to locate Defendants. Lastly, Plaintiff presents no argument on why Infinity
should not be allowed to intervene. The Motion is also unopposed which leads to
an inference that it has merit pursuant to Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.
          Accordingly,
the Motion is GRANTED. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Motion is GRANTED. Infinity is
ordered to separately file the proposed Answer-in-Intervention—which is
attached as Exhibit G to the declaration of Spinola in support of the Motion—with
the Court within five calendar days of this Court’s order.  
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 13th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


