 Case Number:  22STCV38136    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  76 Plaintiff insurer seeks to recover
from the manufacturer of an air vent exhaust fan which caused a fire at the
property of Plaintiff’s insured, for which Plaintiff paid policy benefits.
Defendant Air Vent, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint against the manufacturer of the motor which was allegedly defective
and the cause of the fire.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Air
Vent, Inc. moves for an order allowing opposing documents to be filed under
seal.
Specially-appearing Defendant
Powermax Electric Co. Ltd. Guandong moves to quash the service of summons on
the ground that this Court lacks personal jurisdiction.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Air Vent, Inc.’s motion to seal is DENIED.
            Pursuant
to Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(6), Defendant Air Vent, Inc. is to notify
the Court within 10 days of this order as to whether the documents shall be
filed unsealed.
            Given
the ruling on the motion to seal, and the unsettled status of the opposition
brief and supporting evidence, the hearing on specially-appearing Defendant
Powermax Electric Co. Ltd.’s Guandong motion to quash the service of summons is
CONTINUED to August 2, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Seal
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Air
Vent, Inc. moves for an order allowing opposing documents to be filed under
seal, namely the Confidential Declarations of Courtney Jakofsky and Brad
Holland.
A motion seeking an order sealing the record must be accompanied
by “a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  (Calif. Rules of Court, Rule
2.551(b)(1)[bold emphasis and underlining added].) Per CRC Rule 2.550(d), a court may order that a record be filed under seal
“only if it expressly finds facts that establish” all of the following:
 (1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
 
 (2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record;
 
 (3) A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed;
 
 (4) The proposed sealing is
narrowly tailored; and
 
 (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.           
     (Bold emphasis
added.)
            CRC Rule 2.550(e) provides:
            (1) An
order sealing the record must:
(A)   Specifically state the facts that support
the findings; 
(B)   Direct the sealing of only those documents
and pages, or, if reasonably practicable, portions of those documents and
pages, that contain the material that needs to be placed under seal. All other
portions of each document or page must be included in the public file.
“A request to seal a document must
be filed publicly and separately from the object of the request. It must be supported by a factual
declaration or affidavit explaining the particular needs of the case.”
(In re Marriage of Lechowick (1998)
65 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1416 [bold emphasis and underlining added]).)
“Unless confidentiality is required by
law, court records are presumed to be open.”  CRC
Rule 2.550(c)(bold emphasis and underlining added).  “The trial court cannot rely solely on an agreement or
stipulation of the parties as the basis for permitting records to be filed
under seal. (Citations omitted.)” (Savaglio
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 600 [bold emphasis and
underlining added].)
            However, moving party must demonstrate by way of a factual
declaration or affidavit that all of the CRC Rule
2.550(d) requirements for sealing have been met.
¿        CRC Rule 2.550(d) factors:
 
 (1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record:
 
The Declaration of Courtney Jakofsky does not
identify an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to
the record.
The motion makes a reference in passing to
privacy interests, and makes a generalized reference to AVI’s confidential
business records, confidential discovery from other cases, and/or third party
records designated as confidential. To the extent such documents were
designated as confidential, the Court accepts the premise that this presents an
overriding interest overcoming the right of public access to the record.
In terms of the overriding interest
requirement of a closure or sealing order, NBC Subsidiary identifies two
separate elements. The first element requires the identification of an
overriding interest. (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court, supra,
20 Cal.4th at pp. 1217–1218; see In re Providian Credit Card Cases, supra, 96
Cal.App.4th at p. 298, fn. 3.) Defendant has identified such a potential
overriding interest—a binding contractual agreement not to disclose. 
. . .
 
We agree with defendant that its contractual
obligation not to disclose can constitute an overriding interest within the
meaning of rule 243.1(d). (Citations omitted.)
(Universal City
Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.)
            As such, the Court finds an
overriding interest that overcomes the right to public access.
This requirement is satisfied.
 
 (2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record;
            Moving
party does not explain why sealing the entirety of the three aforementioned
categories of documents, as opposed to redaction of certain portions, is
necessary.
            This
requirement is not satisfied.
 (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
            Even
though moving party has identified an overriding interest, that, by itself, is
insufficient to justify a sealing order. 
We have been unable to find any
appellate court decision which construes Publicker to
permit sealing of court documents merely upon the agreement of the parties
without a specific showing of serious injury. We therefore, with respect,
reject defendant’s broad reading of the citation to Publicker
in footnote 46 of NBC Subsidiary.
. . .  [*1283]  . .
. [O]nce
it is established there is a potential overriding interest, the party seeking
closure or sealing must prove prejudice to that interest is substantially
probable. ( NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc.
v. Superior Court, supra, 20 Cal.4th
at p. 1222.)
In
terms of the overriding interest requirement of a closure or sealing order, NBC Subsidiary
identifies two separate elements. The first element requires the identification
of an overriding interest. ( NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 1217–1218; see In re Providian Credit Card Cases, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 298, fn. 3.) Defendant has identified such a potential
overriding interest—a binding contractual agreement not to disclose. The second element of the overriding
interest analysis is there must be a substantial probability that it will be
prejudiced absent closure or sealing. ( NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 1218; Pack
v. Kings County Human Services Agency (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 821, 832 [107 Cal. Rptr.
2d 594].) As we will note, defendant has not shown a substantial probability any such interest in the
present case will be prejudiced—the second element of overriding interest
analysis identified in NBC Subsidiary. This analysis
has now been promulgated by the Judicial Council as one of the findings
that must be returned before a sealing order can be entered. (Rule 243.1(d)(3)
[“A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed ….”].)
 
(Universal City Studios, Inc.,
supra, 110 Cal.App.4th at 1282-83 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
Moving party has not presented admissible
evidence that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed. 
 
“In delineating the injury
to be prevented, specificity is essential. [Citation.] Broad allegations
of harm, bereft of specific examples or articulated reasoning, are insufficient.”
( In re Cendant Corp., supra, 260 F.3d at p. 194 .) We have been unable to find any appellate court decision which
construes Publicker to permit sealing of court documents merely upon the
agreement of the parties without a specific showing of serious injury.
We therefore, with respect, reject defendant’s broad reading of the citation to
Publicker in footnote 46 of NBC Subsidiary.
(Universal City Studios, Inc., supra,
110 Cal.App.4th at 1282 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            Here, the Declaration of Courtney
Jakofsky does not meet this standard of factual specificity. She does not
articulate specific examples with articulated reasoning whereby AVI would suffer
serious injury if the documents were not sealed. (Universal City Studios,
supra, 110 Cal.App.4th at 1282, 1283.)  
This requirement is not satisfied.       
 
             (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; 
 
            The
proposed sealing is not narrowly tailored, because AVI seeks an order sealing
the entirety of the documents.
 
            This
requirement is not satisfied. 
 
 (5) No less restrictive means
exist to achieve the overriding interest.
            
Moving party has not addressed why
redaction of specific portions of the documents would be insufficient to
achieve the overriding interest. 
 
This requirement is not satisfied.
 
            As such,
the motion to seal is DENIED. 
 
            Pursuant to Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 2.551(b)(6), Defendant Air Vent, Inc. is to notify the Court within 10
days of this order as to whether the documents shall be filed unsealed:
 
If the court denies the motion or application to seal, the moving
party may notify the court that the lodged record is to be filed unsealed. This
notification must be received within 10 days of the order denying the motion or
application to seal, unless otherwise ordered by the court. On receipt of this
notification, the clerk must unseal and file the record. If the moving party
does not notify the court within 10 days of the order, the clerk must (1)
return the lodged record to the moving party if it is in paper form or (2)
permanently delete the lodged record if it is in electronic form.

     (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(6).)
Motion To Quash
            Given
the ruling on the motion to seal, and the unsettled status of the opposition
brief and supporting evidence, the hearing on specially-appearing Defendant
Powermax Electric Co. Ltd.’s Guandong motion to quash the service of summons is
CONTINUED to August 2, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.