  Case Number:  20SMCV01023    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Klenk, v. Behringer
Harvard Redwood LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV01023
MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   1/24/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
The Court has the power to impose
reasonable money sanctions, not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500),
payable to the court for any violation of a
lawful court order by a person, done without good cause or substantial
justification. (CCP §177.5.)  The party
seeking to impose sanctions need only show the failure to obey earlier orders.
(Puritan Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877, 884
[interpreting former statute dealing with “refusal” to comply].) Numerous cases
hold that severe sanctions (i.e., terminating or evidentiary sanctions) for
failure to comply with a court order are allowed only where the failure was
willful. (See R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 486, 495; Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525,
1545; Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327.) The
burden of proof then shifts to the party seeking to avoid sanctions to
establish a satisfactory excuse for his or her conduct. (Corns v. Miller
(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 201; Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1227.)
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Wendy Klenk moves for an
order to compel Defendants to comply with the prior court order (the
Injunction). (CCP §§128, 177.5.) Plaintiff argues that:
 
(1) Despite prior Court Orders to pay
such expenses, and numerous demands that Defendant comply with the same,
Defendants have still failed to pay Plaintiff the meal and
incidental per diems, parking and hotel expenses which this
Court Ordered Defendants
to pay; 
(2) Despite prior Court Orders to
pay such expenses on a timely basis, specifically on the 1st and
15th of each month, Defendants have continually failed to comply; 
(3) Despite prior Court Orders to
provide Plaintiff with accounting and reconciliation of all per diem payments
and expenses, Defendants have continually failed to comply; 
(4) Despite prior Court Orders to
provide Plaintiff with extended stay living accommodations, Defendants have
continually failed to comply; and
(5) Despite prior Court Orders to
provide Plaintiff’s Counsel with a hotel authorization and payment confirmation
30-days in advance, Defendants have continually failed to
comply.
 
Indeed, the Court has ordered that
Defendants reimburse Plaintiff for expenses on the following terms:
 
Defendant to provide alternative
housing to Plaintiff until the habitability issues at Plaintiff's residence are
remediated, i.e., mold and formaldehyde, etc. Both Plaintiff's and Defendant's
experts have arrived at similar conclusions, i.e., that Plaintiff's residence
needs remediation. Currently, Plaintiff has been housed in short-term (less
than 30 day) hotel rooms, causing Plaintiff to move every month. Given
Plaintiff's need for certain ADA accommodations, the Court finds this to not be
reasonable. Hence, Plaintiff requests to be housed at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in
Marina Del Rey. While the Court would ordinarily not so order, given
Plaintiff's representation that the price per day is the same as that at a
prior location where Plaintiff was housed, i.e., the Jamaica Bay Inn, and given
that the Court expects the parties to find a more permanent solution no later
than the end of this year, the Court approves Plaintiff's request, conditioned
upon the price being consistent with the Jamaica Bay Inn and the Ritz allowing
Plaintiff to remain there for more than 30 days -- all as represented in an
email presented by Plaintiff purportedly from the Ritz. If the price is not
consistent, Defendant shall bring an ex parte application so apprising the
Court. 
 
Again, the Court expects this to be
a temporary solution and the parties are ordered to act in good faith in
finding an alternative location for Plaintiff to live in, as Plaintiff's
expert, Mr. Gold, opined at today's hearing that the remediation could take
several months or longer to complete. Again, as stated on the record, Plaintiff
shall not withhold approval of an apartment or condominium unreasonably, and
the Court expects Defendant to locate such a unit in the same vicinity as
Plaintiff's current residence.
 
Recently, on March 1, 2023, the
Court ordered the Defendants to Comply with all prior Court Orders, stating,
“As discussed, Defendants are already obligated by the court to provide
adequate alternate housing during the remediation efforts until such time the
apartment is habitable.” 
 
Here, Plaintiff demonstrates that
Defendants have not paid all amounts owed through January 2024. (See Supp.
Klenk Decl., ¶¶ 7-10.) Defendants do not dispute that they have not paid all
amounts owed under the injunction. Instead, they argue that the jury’s findings
regarding the habitability claims demonstrates that there was no habitability
violation, and thus there is no further obligation to pay the amounts incurred
under the injunction following the verdict. Defendants also request that the
Court order a modification, directing Plaintiff to refund Defendants the full
amount of $611,078.39 under the false allegations. 
 
The Court notes that the
preliminary injunction was not automatically dissolved following the verdict. A
judgment for the defendant at the trial automatically dissolves the
preliminary injunction without formal motion. (City of Oakland v. Sup.Ct.
(1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 565, 569 [following reversal of judgment, plaintiff had
to request a new preliminary injunction].) Here, there was no judgment for Defendants.
While Defendants prevailed on the habitability issues, and those issues were of
concern to the Court when issuing the injunction, the injunction was not
solely reliant on the habitability causes of action. Notably, Plaintiff
prevailed on the negligence cause of action, which supports the injunction.
Thus, the Court is not convinced that the injunction was no longer in effect
after the verdict.
 
The Court has no authority to
modify or dissolve the preliminary injunction unless a party shows that the
“circumstances have so changed that an injunction is no longer necessary or
desirable[.]” (Oakland, supra, 136 Cal.App.3d at 539 [where no
evidentiary hearing was held, the trial court could not have determined whether
and to what extent circumstances changed since the granting of the preliminary
injunction].) On this record, the Court believes that the preliminary
injunction should be reexamined especially in light of the jury’s verdict and
the limited success of Plaintiff at trial. 
Moreover, the terms of the injunction, and the Court’s rationale behind
imposing the injunction, demonstrates that the Court expected the injunction to
be dissolved several years ago. 
 
Therefore, the Court continues this
motion, sets an OSC re: Dissolving the Preliminary Injunction, and orders
briefing on the issue.  Tentatively, the
Court selects March 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., as the hearing date.  The Court will discuss a briefing schedule at
the hearing.