 Case Number:  23SMCV02673    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Guiora LLC, et
al., v. Raines Feldman LLP, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02673
MOTION:                  Petition/Motion
to Compel Arbitration
HEARING DATE:   1/24/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Under California and federal law,
public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of
resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an
agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) or the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an arbitration agreement’s
scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9;
Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West
Assocs. (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of the basic
policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
 
            “Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” (Avery v.
Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59,
quotations omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in
fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity
to compel specific performance of a contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only
the valid and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms
well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.) An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give
effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of
contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, §
1636.) The language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear
and explicit. (Civ. Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a
contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the
uncertainty to exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.) 
 
            The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing
the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (See Ibid.) “In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Defendants’ objection is SUSTAINED. 
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Raines Feldman LLP and
Hamid Rafatjoo move to compel Plaintiffs Haim Revah and Lucinda Revahm, as
Co-Trustees of the Haim Revah and Lucinda Revah Trust Dated June 2, 2005
(“Trustees”), and Guiora, LLC’s (“Guiora”) claims to arbitration. Defendants
assert that the instant claims are required to go to arbitration because Guiora
signed an arbitration agreement covering their claims, and the agreement may be
enforced against the Trustees as third parties. 
 
As with any contract, mutual assent
or consent is necessary for the formation of a valid arbitration agreement.
(Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.) “Consent is not mutual, unless the parties all
agree upon the same thing in the same sense.” (Civ. Code, § 1580.) The moving
party bears the initial burden of showing the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence. (Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169
[“Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.”].)  
 
Plaintiffs allege malpractice
against Defendants in connection with their representation of Guiora in an
underlying Chapter 11 bankruptcy case known as In re Guiora, LLC, United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California - Los Angeles
Division, Case No. 2:21-BK-12775-ER (“Bankruptcy Action”). Defendants advised
Plaintiffs to use Guiora as a shell and to transfer their home to that entity
for no consideration. The bankruptcy was dismissed by the bankruptcy court,
finding it was filed in bad faith, and Plaintiff Trustees lost their home.
 
On March 10, 2021, Raines Feldman
and Guiora entered into a written attorney-client fee agreement, which Haim
Revah executed on Guiora’s behalf. (Rafatjoo Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. 10.) The
Agreement includes an arbitration agreement in Schedule 1, which provides in
part:
 
By signing this engagement letter,
both parties agree that, in the event of any dispute or claim arising out of or
relating to this Agreement, our relationship, our charges, or our services
(including but not limited to disputes or claims regarding our charges, professional
malpractice, errors or omissions, breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty,
fraud, or violation of any statute or Rules of Professional Conduct), SUCH
DISPUTE OR CLAIM SHALL BE RESOLVED BY SUBMISSION TO FINAL AND BINDING
ARBITRATION BEFORE JAMS IN LOS ANGELES COUNTY, CALIFORNIA PURSUANT TO THE JAMS
COMPREHENSIVE ARBITRATION RULES AND PROCEDURES. BOTH PARTIES FURTHER AGREE THAT
THE ARBITRATION SHALL BE CONDUCTED BEFORE A SINGLE JAMS ARBITRATOR WHO IS A
RETIRED CALIFORNIA OR FEDERAL JUDGE OR JUSTICE. BY AGREEING TO ARBITRATE, YOU
WAIVE ANY RIGHT YOU HAVE TO A COURT OR JURY TRIAL.
 
(COE Ex. 13.)
 
There is no reasonable dispute that
this broad clause would apply to the claims at hand as, at least, the claims
made by Guiora. The only dispute is whether to enforce this arbitration
provision against the Trustees. 
 
The Court concurs that the
arbitration provision may be enforced against Trustees on equitable estoppel
grounds. In circumstances such as this, the doctrine of estoppel is applicable
and can be properly used to compel arbitration of this matter. (Suh v.
Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1513.) Arbitration is required
under the estoppel principle if the non-party has asserted claims that are
“dependent upon, or inextricably intertwined with, the obligations” imposed by
the agreement containing the arbitration clause. (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1239.) The test is whether the
non-party “relies on the agreement” containing the arbitration provision “to
establish its cause of action.” (Goldman v. KPMH, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 229-230.) Here, Trustees have asserted a claim dependent upon,
or inextricably intertwined with Guiora’s claim. Trustees assert the exact same
malpractice cause of action as Guiora. Trustees’ claims are therefore
entirely dependent on the agreement containing the arbitration clause. 
 
Plaintiffs assert that the
agreement is substantively unconscionable because agreements which do not allow
for a waiver of arbitration costs by a party financially unable to pay are
unconscionable in violation of California’s public policy of ensuring that all
litigants have access to the justice system regardless of their financial
means. Guiora argues that it has no assets and cannot pay for arbitration. The
Court disbelieves the proffered conclusory evidence that Guiora has no assets
and cannot pay for its fair share of arbitration. Notably, Guiora fails to
explain how it could prosecute this action in court if it has no assets
or ability to pay. Notably, Plaintiffs have not applied for fee waivers. The Trustees
also argue, without authority, that they cannot be made to pay for any costs
for arbitration. In support, they cite general descriptions of third-party
beneficiaries to a contract, to wit, that a third-party beneficiary need not
supply any consideration to enforce an agreement made for its benefit. (Principal
Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Vars (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1469, 1488-89.) This
generic authority has no bearing or discussion on the payment of arbitration
fees by third-party beneficiaries. Plaintiffs otherwise do not show that they
would be denied “equal access to justice” or a violation of any public policy.
(See Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77 [discussing
public policy within the employment litigation context].) Since the Court does
not find that Plaintiffs lack financial means to pay for arbitration, Plaintiffs
do not show that the agreement is unconscionable as applied.
 
Moreover, the doctrine of
unconscionability requires additional showings, including the necessary element
of procedural unconscionability. (Sonic-Calabasas
A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133; Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare
Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) Thus, the Court will not
deny the motion on unconscionability grounds.
 
Defendants therefore meet their burden
to demonstrate the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties
that covers Plaintiffs’ claims. Plaintiffs, in turn, fail to demonstrate that
the agreement is unconscionable or otherwise unenforceable. Defendants’ motion
is therefore GRANTED and the Court orders Plaintiffs’ claims to arbitration, as
discussed above. The entire action is STAYED pending the completion of the
arbitration. (CCP § 1281.4.) 
 
The Court set a status conference
re arbitration for October 24, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties shall file a brief status report
on the arbitration proceedings three court days before this hearing.
 