 Case Number:  23SMCV02521    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Avrech, et
al., v. Delta Capital LLC
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02521
MOTION:                  Demurrer
and Motion to Strike 
HEARING DATE:   1/24/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)

 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Since this is a demurrer, the Court will not consider the extrinsic
evidence presented by Defendants, including the declaration of Shahrokh
Makhtarzadeh.
 
Lease Documents
 
Defendant demurs to each cause of action on the grounds that the causes
fail to state sufficient facts and are subject to the applicable statute of
limitations.  The Complaint alleges eight
causes of action for 1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 2) Tortious
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; 3) Negligence; 4) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 5) Private Nuisance; 6) Violation of
California Civil Code Section 1942.4; 7) Violation of Unlawful Business Practices
(Business & Professions Code Section 17200); and 8) Violation of Los
Angeles Municipal Code Article 5.3.
 
Generally, claims sounding in a breach of a contractual right must plead
the terms of the contract “set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the
contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by
its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) Here, Plaintiffs fail to fully allege the specific
legal effect of the terms or attach a copy of the relevant contracts underlying
each of the claims. The complaint is expressly based on two documents that give
Plaintiffs’ their primary rights: the Lease and the Estoppel Certificate. The
complaint alleges Plaintiffs Gary and Cynthia Avrech are tenants and occupants
of certain residential property located at 903 S. Barrington Ave., or 1700 W.
Dorothy St., Los Angeles, CA, 90049. (the Property). (Compl. ¶ 1.) On December
24, 2005, Gary Avrech executed a Lease with the owner of the Property at the
time. (¶ 10.) On May 1, 2019, Plaintiffs executed an Estoppel Certificate for
the Subject Property following Delta’s purchase of the Subject Property. (Id.) The
Estoppel Certificate set Plaintiffs’ monthly rental rate at $1,467.75, and also
noted that there was a “crack in the living room ceiling due to leaking that
needs repair soon due to hazard,” and that the mechanism in the upstairs
South-facing window in the South-facing bedroom needed to be repaired. (Id.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not attached a copy of the written lease or the estoppel
certificate which form the basis of their tenancy with Defendants. These
documents compose the contractual and lease rights underlying each cause of
action. Therefore, Plaintiffs should at least attach such documents to the
complaint. Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Statute of
Limitations and other grounds
 
Next, Defendant argues that “virtually all” of the defects or violations
claimed here were in existence on May 1, 2019, or earlier. Defendant argues
Plaintiffs should have therefore brought these claims within four years of that
date. Unless a complaint affirmatively discloses on its face that the statute
of limitations has run, demurrer must be overruled. (See Lockley v. Law
Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 881 [“It must appear clearly and affirmatively that, upon the
face of the complaint, the right of action is necessarily barred”]; see also Moseley
v. Abrams (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 355, 359 [“A demurrer on the ground
of the bar of the statute of limitations will not lie where the action may be,
but is not necessarily barred”].) “Generally, a
cause of action accrues and the statute of limitation begins to run when a suit
may be maintained. Ordinarily this is when the wrongful act is done and the
obligation or the liability arises . . . . In other words, a cause of action
accrues upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the cause of
action. [Citation.]” (Cobb v. City of Stockton (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 65, 72-73, alterations and internal quotation marks omitted.) 
 
Defendant fails to meet its initial burden of persuasion on this point,
as they do not cite any applicable statute of limitation until their reply
papers. The Court will not consider any newly raised statutes in reply.
Defendant also does not explain why the certificate would trigger the statutory
period for the entire claim. Furthermore, Defendant does not demonstrate that a
four-year statute of limitations would apply to each cause of action. For
example, nuisance causes of action have a unique statute of limitations
analysis. (See Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 937 [discussing
“continuing” violations].) Given this dearth of briefing and notice, the Court will
not sustain a demurrer on this basis.  Finally, the Court does not find that the complaint
is unintelligible.
 
Accordingly, the remainder of the demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages
 
Defendant also moves to strike punitive damages.  “In order to survive a motion to strike an
allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. [Citations.] In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth. [Citations.] In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation. [Citation.]” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
[Citation.] Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or
malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.
[Citation.]” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn.
omitted.) Specific facts must be pleaded in support
of punitive damages. (Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d
374, 391-92.) 
 
In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code Section 3294. (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294
(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (§ 3294(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (§ 3294(c)(2).)  Despicable is a powerful term used to describe circumstances
that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Coll. Hosp., supra, 8
Cal.4th at 726.)  A plaintiff may establish the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct and that he willfully and deliberately
failed to avoid those consequences to support an award of punitive damages
based on conscious disregard of the safety of others. (Penner v. Falk
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)  
 
Here, the Complaint alleges sufficient
facts to support the allegation of malicious and despicable conduct. The Complaint generally alleges that Defendants
breached their duties of care by failing to provide a safe and habitable living
environment for Plaintiffs and intentionally and/or negligently failing to
repair and maintain the Property. (¶ 7.) Plaintiffs’ complaints and the complaints
of other tenants at the Subject Property were repeatedly and intentionally
ignored by Defendants until the city stepped in. (¶¶ 12-24.) Beginning in March
of 2020, Plaintiffs continuously requested that Defendants repair the leak in
the Subject Property that was noted on the Estoppel Certificate. (¶ 12.) Despite
multiple assurances from Defendants that the leak would be repaired, repairs
were not conducted until the Los Angeles Housing Department (“LAHD”) became
involved with the Subject Property in early 2023. (Id.) As a result of
Defendants’ failure to address this leak over a period of multiple years, water
continued to collect within the structure of the Subject Property, leading to
portions of the living room ceiling falling to the ground. (Id.) 
 
On January 30, 2023, LAHD issued a Notice and Order to Comply, Case Number
843593, to Defendants following an inspection of the Subject Property,
indicating the following violations: (1) Find and eliminate cause of water
damaged area in living room; (2) Repair
or replace defective
window crank assembly in second bedroom; (3) Repair or replace damaged or delaminated
entry door; (4) Replace missing transition at doorway in hallway bathroom; (5)
Paint and patch all water damaged areas to match existing in living room and
stairway; (6) Resurface chipped/damaged tub surface in hallway bathroom; (7)
Remove defective caulking and reapply at hallway bathroom; and (8) Exterior
maintenance. (Compl., ¶ 16.)  Defendants
delayed making repairs. Repairs did not commence until Defendants began to
repair the Subject Property following LAHD’s March 8, 2023, reinspection and
referral of the matter to a General Manager’s Hearing. (¶¶ 18-19.) Further,
Plaintiffs allege the repairs were completed in a haphazard manner to simply
appease LAHD, and did not include a full remediation of the Subject Property,
which had been subject to a water leak for multiple years. (¶ 19.)
 
Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant retaliated against them. On March
24, 2023, Defendants contacted LAHD to file a complaint with respect to an
enclosed storage area outside of the kitchen of the subject Property being
built without permits. (Compl., ¶ 21.) Defendants essentially “told on
themselves” in order for LAHD to come and inspect the area in question, which
was built prior to Plaintiffs moving into the property. (Id.) Defendants made
such a complaint for the sole reason of retaliating against Plaintiffs by
reducing the square footage and storage space of the Subject Property and to
harass and annoy Plaintiffs. (Id.) As a result, on April 7, 2023, LAHD issued a
Notice and Order to Comply to Defendants for a violation of illegal
construction for the unpermitted enclosure. Defendants were instructed to
either obtain the proper permits or demolish the construction. Defendants chose
to demolish the storage area, removing 80 sq. ft., which is nearly 10% of the
square footage of Plaintiffs’ lease. (Id.)
 
Several of the causes of action pled could support a claim of punitive
damages under such facts. Under California
law, a landlord’s intentional failure to repair can support a claim for
punitive damages depending on the severity of the facts. (Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.) For example, in Stoiber,
the tenant pled sufficient facts supporting exemplary damages by alleging that
the landlord had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises,
including leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof,
broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous conditions, and that the
landlord failed to repair them. (Id.) Stoiber
also noted that intentional nuisances or the intentional infliction of
emotional distress may also provide a basis for punitive damages. (Id.) 
 
From these facts, a reasonable fact finder
could conclude that the above conduct was malicious and despicable. Plaintiffs’
complaints and the complaints of other tenants at the Subject Property were
repeatedly and intentionally ignored by Defendants until the city stepped in.
(¶¶ 12-16, 23-24.) Simply put, Plaintiffs allege intentional delay and
retaliation for complaining of defects. Whether this could be considered
despicable conduct would depend on factual circumstances outside of
consideration at the pleading stage. (See Uzyel
v. Kadisha (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 866, 925 [“[w]hether to award punitive
damages . . . and the amount of such an award are questions committed to the
trier of fact. [Citation.]”].)
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is DENIED.
 
Plaintiffs have ten days to file an amended complaint.