 Case Number:  23SMCV00234    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Uzun v. City
of Santa Monica, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00234
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Independent Medical Examination
HEARING DATE:   1/24/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
In a personal injury action, “any defendant
may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. [and]  (2) The examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220(a).).
In addition, “A defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of
court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action,
whichever occurs first.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220(b).).
 
“If a defendant who has demanded a
physical examination under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff's response
to that demand, deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to
submit to the physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for
an order compelling compliance with the demand. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250(a).) 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250(b).)
 
Analysis
 
Defendant City of Santa Monica moves
to compel Plaintiff Guven Uzun to submit to an independent medical examination (IME)
by Dr. Michael Gold. Defendant explains that Plaintiff has already submitted to
an IME in a related action. Plaintiff initially filed suit in the U.S. District
Court in 2020. Plaintiff objected to an IME in this federal action, but the
court granted a motion compelling the IME. (See RJN Ex. C.)  Following an appeal in 2022, a single claim of
negligence as to Officers Valenzuela and King was remanded to the District
Court. The District Court declined to exercise supplemental jurisdiction and
dismissed the claim without prejudice. Plaintiff refiled the negligence claim
in this court via a complaint filed on January 17, 2023.
 
In this action, Defendants proposed
that discovery responses served under oath in the District Court action could
be deemed served in this case. Defendants represent there was no discussion or
any agreement as to an IME. Defendants noticed their intention to have
Plaintiff examined by a new doctor, Dr. Michael Gold of Santa Monica. The
Notice of Dr. Gold’s IME was served on Plaintiff on December 21, 2023. (Plowden
Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff served an objection to the IME on December 26, 2023.
(Plowden Decl. Ex. B) Defendants request that the IME be performed as soon as
possible given the approaching trial date.
 
The Court agrees that good cause
exists to order the examination. Plaintiff has not been examined since June of
2021, approximately two-and-a-half years ago and in a separate action. Even if
this is considered a second IME, which it is not, Defendants are entitled to a clear
and current picture of Plaintiff’s current status.  Moreover, conducting an IME in a federal
court action, even if related to this case, would not trigger the protections
of Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.220(a) and a single IME.
 
In addition, Plaintiff objects to
the specific doctor who has been designated to conduct the examination, Michael
Gold, MD. Plaintiff believes that Dr. Gold will not conduct a fair examination
because Dr. Gold previously opposed the granting of Plaintiff’s credentialing
application for privileges at St. John’s Hospital, Santa Monica, on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s writing was illegible, and because Dr. Gold practices
neurology in the locality. (Uzun Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff also believes that the
prior IME conducted by Dr. Rudnick was unfair. (Id. ¶¶9-11.) The Court is not
convinced that Dr. Gold would provide an unfair examination, such that the
examination should not go forward as noticed. To the extent that Dr. Gold or
any other expert conducts an “unfair” examination, Plaintiff will have the
opportunity to correct the record at trial with his own evidence, or during
pre-trial motions. That said, considering Plaintiff’s objections, the Court
will allow Plaintiff’s counsel to be present during the examination. 
 
The Court is not inclined to grant
sanctions. The Court agrees that the procedural history posed a reasonable question
as to Defendants’ entitlement to a second IME, and thus the opposition was
justified.  Accordingly, the motion is
GRANTED.  The IME will occur within 10
days unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.