 Case Number:  24VECV03806    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  W MARCELLA
HALPRIN vs ROSS MORGAN & COMPANY, INC., et al.
 
defendants ross morgan &
company Inc. and mont calabasas association’s demurrer to complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        December 11, 2024                          Trial Date:       N/A
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV03806
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Ross Morgan & Company, Inc. and Mont Calabasas Association 
Responding Party:     No
opposition    
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Reagan Decl. ¶¶3-5.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff Marcella
Halprin filed a complaint against Defendants Ross Morgan & Company, Inc.
Mont Calabasas Association and The Centurian Group for general negligence and
premises liability. Plaintiff alleges there were attempted break-ins into
Plaintiff’s home by unknown individuals while Plaintiff’s lived in a gated
community that has a private security company, The Centurian Group. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Ross Morgan & Company,
Inc. and Mont Calabasas Association’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants Ross Morgan & Company,
Inc. and Mont Calabasas Association request this court take judicial notice of
(1) The Grant Deed dated December 30, 2013, for the property commonly known as
26632 Calabasas, California 91302, transferring the subject property from
Marcella Bade to Marcella Bade as Trustee of The Marcella L. Bade Revocable
Trust dated December 30, 2013 (Exh. A); and (2) The Declaration of Covenants,
Conditions and Restrictions and Reservation of Easements for Mont Calabasas
(Exh. B). 
 
The court GRANTS Defendants’ request
for judicial notice. (See Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 256, 266.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Ross Morgan & Company,
Inc. and Mont Calabasas Association demur to the complaint of Plaintiff
Marcella Halprin on the grounds the complaint fails to state sufficient facts
for any cause of action against Defendants and is uncertain. 
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on
the grounds the CC&Rs do not provide warranty for Plaintiff’s security.
Specifically, Defendants demur on the grounds the CC&Rs provide a Security
and Privacy Disclaimer stating “Access gates and their staffing are not intended
to provide security or privacy for persons, personal property or Lots in the
Properties. Neither Declarant nor the Association undertakes to provide
security or privacy for the Properties or Owners, nor do they make any
representations or warranties concerning the security or privacy of the
Properties or Owners.” (RJN, Exh. B.) As a result, Plaintiff’s claims that they
were under the mistaken belief that the security provided by Defendants would
be able to monitor and react to activity and suffered injury of a result cannot
withstand the demurrer. 
 
The court agrees. Pursuant to the
CC&Rs, Plaintiff was on notice that no security would be provided or
warranted. This demurrer is unopposed and therefore, Plaintiff has failed to
point to anywhere in the CC&Rs that Defendants owed a duty to provide
security. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. The court will briefly address Defendant’s remaining
arguments below. 
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on
the grounds they are not liable for the criminal conduct of third parties. The
court agrees. As noted by Defendants, Plaintiff fails to allege a special
relationship. Even if a special relationship existed as landlord-tenant, “courts
have been careful to avoid imposing standards of conduct which would
effectively hold the landlord liable for all crimes committed on the
premises.”  (Resenbaum v. Security Pacific Corp. (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 1084, 1095.)  Recent decisions “have linked the level of
security the landlord must provide to the degree of foreseeability of the
harm.”  (Ibid.) “[T]he requisite degree of foreseeability rarely,
if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent
crime on the landowner’s premises.”  (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 238.)  To hold otherwise would force landlord to
become insurers of public safety, which is contrary to well-established
policy.  (Ibid.) The complaint fails to allege any facts that
the criminal conduct was reasonably foreseeable. 
 
Lastly, Defendants argue the cause of
action fails because the only allegation occurring on property controlled by
the Defendants is the existence of a parked vehicle on an access road and the
actual alleged criminal conduct occurred on the plaintiff's property which is
not controlled by Defendants.  The court
agrees. There are no allegations supporting a claim for premises liability. The
demurrer is unopposed. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants Ross Morgan
& Company, Inc. and Mont Calabasas Association’s Demurrer to the Complaint
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 