 Case Number:  24VECV00546    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  W MARIA
ARZATE V. MICHAEL ABDALLA, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Date of Hearing:        December 11, 2024                                      Trial Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        24VECV00546
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Sarkis Takvoryan  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Maria Arzate   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of a
motor vehicle collision. On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff Maria Arzate filed a
complaint against Defendants Michael Abdalla and Sarkis Takvoryan. Plaintiff
alleges while driving their vehicle, an unidentified driver collided with the
rear of Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff alleges the registered owners of the
vehicle at the time of the incident were Defendants Michael Abdalla and Sarkis
Takvoryan. 
 
On August 29, 2024, entry
of default was entered against Defendant Sarkis Takvoryan. 
 
TENTATIVE RULLING
 
Defendant
Takvoryan’s Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Sarkis Takvoryan moves this court to set aside the default on the grounds of
inadvertence, surprise, mistake or excusable neglect. 
 
The
court has broad discretion to vacate the entry of default, default judgment or
a dismissal, but that discretion can be exercised only if the defendant
establishes a proper ground for relief, by the proper procedure and within the
set time limits. A party may seek relief under the discretionary provision of Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b) when the “judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her [is] through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.  A motion to set aside/vacate cannot be brought
more than 6 months after the entry of default and must be made within a
“reasonable time.” It is noted that appellate courts are traditionally
“favorably disposed toward such action on the part of the trial courts as will
permit, rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal controversies on their
merits.” (Mercantile Collection Bureau v. Pinheiro (1948) 84 Cal.App.2d
606, 608, citing Benjamin v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1947) 31 Cal.2d 523.)
 
Defendant
Takvoryan seeks to set aside the default entered against him on August 29, 2024
on the grounds he was working with Plaintiff’s counsel to resolve the issue of
whether or not he was a proper party to the instant action. Defendant Takvoryan
contends his failure to respond was due to the fact he was continuing to send
information to Plaintiff’s counsel that he actually had sold the vehicle
involved in the accident and was waiting to hear back from Plaintiff’s counsel.
(Takvoryan Decl. ¶3.) Defendant Takvoryan claims instead of assisting him,
Plaintiff’s counsel submitted the request for default, which prevented
Defendant from filing their answer. (Takvoryan Decl. ¶4.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues they have been in contact with Defendant regarding
the documentation needed to show Defendant Takvoryan was not the registered
owner of the vehicle involved and if he was unable to provide such, Plaintiff
was to proceed with the entry of default. (Ashour Decl. ¶¶2, 3.) Plaintiff
further argues the DMV records continue to show that Defendant Takvoryan is the
registered owner of the vehicle. (Ashour Decl. ¶6.) 
 
In the
interests of fairness and justice, the court grants Defendant Takvoryan’s
motion to set aside default that was entered due to Defendant’s own mistake.
Defendant Takvoryan testifies that he was working with Plaintiff to bring
documentation that he no longer owned the subject vehicle and was waiting to
hear back from Plaintiff’s counsel when default was taken. While Plaintiff’s
counsel takes issue with this statement, the court notes that the policy is to
liberally grant relief so that cases may be resolved on their merits. (See Olvera
v. Olvera (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 32, 39.)
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Takvoryan’s Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED. Defendant is to
file their answer within 20 days. 
 