 Case Number:  23VECV02122    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  W LOIS GERACE v.
OFFER SABAG
 
defendant costco wholesale
corporation’s MOTION TO STRIKE amendment to complaint to add doe defendant 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
11, 2024                          Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV02122
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Costco
Wholesale Corporation 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Lois Gerace
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff Lois Gerace
filed a complaint against Defendant Offer Sabag for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence. Plaintiff alleges a vehicle operated by Defendant Sabag
struck her while she was a pedestrian. Plaintiff named Dennis Meehan as
Defendant Doe 1 on October 23, 2023. On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff named Costco
Wholesale Corporation as Defendant Doe 2. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant Dennis Meehan
filed a cross-complaint against Offer Sabag for implied indemnity, total
indemnity and apportionment of fault. Meehan also filed a cross-complaint
against Costco Wholesale Corporation for implied indemnity, total indemnity and
apportionment of fault. 
 
Defendant Offer Sabag filed a
cross-complaint against Dennis Meehan for equitable indemnity, contribution and
apportionment, and declaratory relief on February 8, 2024. 
 
On September 30, 2024, Costco Wholesale
Corporation filed a cross-complaint against both Offer Sabag and Dennis Meehan
for comparative indemnity and apportionment of fault, total equitable
indemnity, declaratory relief, contractual indemnity, breach of contract and
declaratory relief – duty to indemnify. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Costco Wholesale Corporation’s Motion to Strike Amendment to Complaint to Add
Doe Defendant [Doe 2] is DENIED.  
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant
Costco requests this court take judicial notice of the Case Management
Conference Statement filed with this court on August 28, 2023 (Exh. 1) and
Plaintiff’s Amendment to Complaint naming Defendant Costco as Doe 2 filed on
July 26, 2024 (Exh. 2). 
 
The court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §452(d).) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendant
Costco Wholesale Corporation moves this court to strike the Amendment to the
Complaint substituting Costco as Doe 2 on the grounds Plaintiff’s substitution
fails to comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 474. 
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.  (CCP § 435(b)(1).) 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading (CCP § 436(a)), and may strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court (CCP § 436(b)). 
 
“When the
plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in
the complaint . . . and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., §
474.)  “When a defendant is properly named under section 474, the
amendment relates back to the filing date of the original complaint.”  (McClatchy
v. Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368,
371.)  However, “[f]or this rule to apply, it is necessary that the
plaintiff actually be ignorant of the name or identity of the fictitiously
named defendant at the time the complaint is filed. . . The phrase ‘when the plaintiff
is ignorant of the name of a defendant’ . . . has not been interpreted
liberally.  It includes situations where the plaintiff ‘knew the identity
of the person but was ignorant of the facts giving him a cause of action
against the person, or knew the name and all of the facts but was unaware that
the law gave him a cause of action against the fictitiously named defendant and
discovered that right by reason of decisions rendered after commencement of the
action . . .’”  (Hazel v. Hewlett (1988) 201 Cal.App.3d 1458,
1464.)  Ignorance of the facts is the critical issue.  (Ibid.) 
Unreasonable delay in filing a Doe amendment after plaintiff discovers the
defendant’s true identity may be grounds to bar the amendment if the defendant
was prejudiced by the delay.  (A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1067.) 
 
Defendant
Costco argues Plaintiff cannot claim genuine and good faith ignorance of the
identity of Costco at the time the complaint was filed because at the time
Plaintiff filed her complaint, she was aware the alleged incident occurred
while she was in the Costco parking lot. Plaintiff, in her own discovery requests,
stated the incident occurred in the Costco parking lot (Ortega Decl., Exh. 3), Defendant
Sabag also repeatedly stated in his discovery responses that the incident
occurred in the Costco parking lot (Ortega Decl., Exh. 5, 6), and Defendant
Meehan’s discovery responses identified the incident as occurring in the Costco
parking lot. (Ortega Decl., Exh. 4.) Accordingly, Defendant Costco asserts
Plaintiff cannot meet the threshold showing that she was ignorant of Costco’s
identity at the time the complaint was filed. Defendant Costco also argues
because Plaintiff was not truly ignorant of the identity of Costco, the statute
of limitations does not extend. The alleged incident occurred on February 20,
2022 and Plaintiff waited until May 15, 2023 to file her complaint. Plaintiff,
however, did not file the Doe amendment adding Costco as a Defendant until July
26, 2024. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff first argues the motion should be denied because
Defendant made no meet and confer effort prior to filing and Defendant has
filed an answer in this action before seeking their motion to strike. First,
the court notes while Defendant failed to meet and confer prior to bringing a
motion to strike, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to
grant or deny the motion to strike. (CCP §435.5(a)(4).) The court admonishes
Defendant for failing to comply with the procedural requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure. 
 
Next,
Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied because Defendant filed an answer
prior to filing the instant motion to strike. The court agrees. “[A] defendant
named in an action by a Doe amendment under section 474 may challenge the
amendment by way of an evidence-based motion[.]” (A.N. v. County of Los
Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1067.) Although a defendant may
challenge a 474 Doe Amendment by filing a motion to strike, Defendant Costco
has failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 435. Code of Civil
Procedure section 435(b)(1) provides that “[a]ny party, within the time limit
allowed to respond to a pleasing may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply
to motions specified in subdivision (e).” As noted  by Plaintiff, subdivision (e) does not apply
in this instance because Defendant has not filed a motion for summary judgment
or judgment on the pleadings. Here, Defendant filed their answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint on September 3, 2024 and did not file their motion to strike until
November 4, 2024.  
 
The court at
this time need not address whether the Doe Amendment was proper. Defendant
Costco can later address these contentions and statute of limitation issues on
motion for judgment on the pleadings and the like. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation’s Motion to Strike Amendment to
Complaint to Add Doe Defendant [Doe 2] is DENIED.  