 Case Number:  24STCV08713    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CARLOS DE LEON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ALLIED DIGITAL SERVICES, LLC, a corporation; and DOES 1 through
  50,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV08713
 Hearing Date:   September
  25, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant’s Motion
  to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings [RES ID # 6618]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Carlos De Leon (De Leon) sues
Defendants Allied Digital Services, LLC (Allied Digital) and Does 1 through 50,
pursuant to an April 8, 2024 Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1)
Disability Discrimination; (2) Failure to Accommodate Disability in Violation
of FEHA; (3) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process; (4) Failure to
Prevent Discrimination; (5) Retaliation; and (6) Wrongful Constructive
Termination in Violation of Public Policy. 
The claim arises from allegations
that in December 2022, De Leon, a deskside technician at Allied Digital,
suffered injuries to his back, arms, shoulder and right hand while installing a
server at work. (Compl. ¶ 11.) De Leon alleges that he was constructively
terminated in February 2024 after Allied Digital failed to accommodate his
injuries, placed De Leon on a leave of absence, and asked him to return his
work equipment. (Compl. ¶¶ 12-25.) 
B. Motion Before the Court
On July 12, 2024, Allied Digital
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and stay the proceedings pursuant
to an Arbitration Agreement between De Leon and Allied Digital. 
On September 12, 2024, De Leon
opposed the motion. 
Allied Digital has not filed a
reply. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
A party to an arbitration agreement may seek a court order
compelling the parties to arbitrate a dispute covered by the agreement. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Absent a viable defense to enforcement, the court must
grant the motion if it determines there is an agreement to arbitrate that has
not been rescinded. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also Cinel v. Barna
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1389 [“Under section 1281.2, the court shall order
a matter to arbitration if it determines that there is an agreement to
arbitrate and (1) the agreement has not been waived or (2) the agreement has
not been revoked”].) Even where the FAA governs the interpretation of
arbitration clauses, California law governs whether an arbitration agreement
has been formed in the first instance. (Baker v. Osborne Development Corp.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.)  
The party seeking arbitration has the “burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the
evidence[.]” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 842.) “Once that burden is satisfied, the party opposing arbitration must
prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo
v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The
trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at
its discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto
Group, Inc., supra, at p. 842.) “A party required to prove something
by a preponderance of the evidence ‘need prove only that it is more likely to
be true than not true.’ [Citation.] Preponderance of the evidence means ‘“that
the evidence on one side outweighs, preponderates over, is more than, the
evidence on the other side, not necessarily in number of witnesses or quantity,
but in its effect on those to whom it is addressed.”’ [Citations.] In other
words, the term refers to ‘evidence that has more convincing force than that
opposed to it.’ [Citations.]” (People ex rel. Brown v. Tri-Union Seafoods,
LLC (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1549, 1567.) 
“California has a strong public policy in favor of
arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a dispute are resolved
in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be
said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Id. [internal quotations
omitted].) Generally, thus, on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must
grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate
exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist
for revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render
the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues.
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
Nonetheless, California’s policy in favor of arbitration
does not override ordinary principles of contract interpretation holding that
the contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties
to the contract can be ordered to arbitration. (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 175, 185. See also Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975)
14 Cal.3d 473, 481 [“There is indeed a strong policy in favor of enforcing
agreements to arbitrate, but there is no policy compelling persons to accept
arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate and which
no statute has made arbitrable.”].)
B. Existence of Arbitration
Agreement
“Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) 
In support of their motion, Allied
Digital attaches a copy of an Arbitration Agreement signed by De Leon on March
22, 2019. (Mot., Patel Decl. ¶¶ 9-10, Ex. C.) DeLeon does not contest that he executed
the Arbitration Agreement as part of the onboarding process. 
Thus, an agreement to arbitrate
exists between the parties. 
C.   
Unconscionability 
Under general contract principles,
an agreement is unenforceable if it is unconscionable. “‘The prevailing view is
that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must¿both¿be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’
[Citation] But they need not be present in the same degree. “Essentially a
sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural
process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the
greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.”
[Citation] In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to
the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.¿(2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 114.)
De Leon argues that the Arbitration
Agreement is procedurally and substantively unconscionable when read together
with the Employee Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality
Agreement. (Opp. p. 7.) “‘Under Civil Code section 1642, it is the general
rule that several papers relating to the same subject matter and executed as
parts of substantially one transaction, are to be construed together as one
contract [citation].’ ” [Citation] According to that rule, documents executed
as part of a single transaction are construed together, even if they do not
expressly refer to one another.’” (Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482, 490.) 
Here, the Arbitration Agreement and
the Employee Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement were presented to and
signed by De Leon on the same day. Both agreements were part of De Leon’s
onboarding documents and contain terms regarding how the parties may resolve
disputes. It is therefore appropriate to consider them together. 
1.    
Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability
“addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn., supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 246.) Established case law
explains that “‘[o]ppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power
which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice’
[and] ‘[s]urprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon
terms of the bargain are hidden [in the agreement] by the party seeking to
enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 477, 484.) 
De Leon argues that the Arbitration
Agreement is oppressive because when he was offered the job, he was told that
his “employment was contingent upon returning all the paperwork and documents
included in the email,” the agreements were part of over 100 pages of
onboarding documents, and the agreements were legally complex, and he did not
have an attorney review the documents. (Opp. pp. 8-9, De Leon Decl., ¶¶ 6-13.)  Additionally, he contends that the Agreement
did not contain an opt-out clause. (Opp. p. 11.) 
De Leon also argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is oppressive because it is a contract of adhesion. He
argues that the Arbitration agreement is a standardized contract, presented to
him on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis as his employment was conditioned upon
returning the signed document, and that there was unequal bargaining power
between the parties. (Opp. pp. 9-10.)
He also argues that the Arbitration
Agreement contains a high level of surprise because the Arbitration Agreement
was two pages amongst over 100 pages presented to him and Allied Digital did
not explain what the effects of the Arbitration Agreement were.  (Opp. p. 11.) 
Here, De Leon has established that
the Arbitration Agreement is an adhesion contract. Allied Digital told De Leon “You
cannot begin your employment with us, until all documents are received.” (Mot.,
Patel Decl. Ex A.) Additionally, there is unequal bargaining power between De
Leon and Allied Digital. Although the Arbitration Agreement was only two pages
within a lengthy onboarding document package, De Leon states that an employee
of Allied Digital called him and “emphasized that [he] must sign page 76 and 78
of the Employee Handbook.” Thus, De Leon was specifically directed to the
Arbitration and Confidentiality Agreements within the onboarding package. De
Leon also argues that the Agreement is procedurally unconscionably because it
was legally complex and no one explained the effects of an Arbitration
Agreement to him. Upon review, the language of the Arbitration Agreement is not
overly complex. Additionally, directly above the signature line, in bold font,
the Agreement states: “By signing this Arbitration Agreement both the Company
and the Employee acknowledge and understand that by agreeing to arbitrate their
disputes they are bound to arbitrate any disputes arising out of the employment
relationship between the Company and the Employee and that, unless otherwise
provided by law, both the employee and the Company are forfeiting their rights
to file a lawsuit in court.” 
Based on the above reasoning, there
is a small amount of procedural unconscionability because De Leon has shown a
contract of adhesion. Thus, De Leon must show a strong degree of substantive unconscionability
for the Arbitration Agreement to be found unenforceable. 
2.    
Substantive Unconscionability
“Substantive unconscionability
focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are so one-sided
as to shock the conscience.” (Kinney v. United HealthCare Servs., Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.) 
De Leon argues that the Arbitration
Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it lacks mutuality, requires
an unlimited duration, requires employees to engage in employer-controlled
pre-arbitration resolution, and requires employees to pay costs unique to
arbitration. 
First, De Leon argues that the Arbitration
Agreement lacks mutuality because the Employee Non-Disclosure and
Confidentiality Agreement excludes claims most likely to be brought by Allied
Digital. (Opp. pp. 12-13.)  “‘An
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable if it requires the
employee but not the employer to arbitrate claims.’ [Citations.]”  (Martinez v. Master Protection Corp. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 107, 114.) “Of the greatest overall significance is the fact
that it imposes on the employee only a unilateral obligation to arbitrate: ‘In
assessing substantive unconscionability, the paramount consideration is
mutuality.’”  (Nyulassy v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1287.)
De Leon does not argue that the
terms of the Arbitration Agreement are non-mutual. Rather, he argues that the Employee
Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement carves out an option for Allied
Digital to seek provisional remedies if an employee discloses confidential
information. Specifically, paragraph 7 in the Employee
Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement states that: “Employee
acknowledges that Employee’s breach of this NDA may cause irreparable harm to ADSL-US
and that remedies at law may be inadequate to redress any threatened or actual
violation of this NDA. Employee specifically agrees that, in addition to any
other relief that might be available under law, ADSL-US may enforce its rights
by temporary and/or permanent injunctive or declaratory relief.” (Opp., Rishwain
Decl., Ex. B, ¶ 7.)
A carve-out for provisional
remedies such as injunctive relief is not improper as the California Supreme
Court has squarely rejected a challenge to an arbitration agreement on this
precise ground in Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th
1237.  Further, De Leon does not contend
that Allied Services is seeking such relief here, nor does he explain how this
provision affects his causes of action in the Complaint, none of which arise
from terms of the Employee Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement. 
Thus, considering the Arbitration
Agreement and Employee Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement together, De
Leon has failed to show substantive unconscionability on this ground.
Second, De Leon argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it has an
unlimited duration. The Arbitration Agreement provides that it “shall survive
the employer-employee relationship between the Company and the employee. This
Arbitration
Agreement can be modified or revoked only by a written
agreement signed by the employee and an executive officer of the Company that
references this Arbitration Agreement and specifically states the intent to modify
or revoke this Agreement. ” (Mot., Patel Decl. Ex. C, ¶ 7.)  This is substantially the same language that
the Court in Cook v. University of Southern California found to be
unconscionable because it meant the agreement could potentially survive indefinitely.
(Cook v. Univ. of Southern Cal. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 312, 325-326) 
However, unlike in Cook, the
Arbitration Agreement here is limited in scope in that it only applies to
disputes arising from De Leon’s employment with Allied Digital. (Compare Cook,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at 322 [arbitration agreement was substantively
unconscionable because it required the arbitration of all claims, whether or
not arising out of the plaintiff’s employment with defendant, against defendant
and any of its related entities, for an indefinite period of time.] 
            Thus, De
Leon has shown a small degree of substantive unconscionability because the
Arbitration Agreement could potentially survive indefinitely.  
Third, De Leon argues that the
Arbitration Agreement requires employer-controlled pre-arbitration resolution.
The Arbitration Agreement provides: “The Employee and the Company agree that
any controversy, dispute, or claim (collectively “disputes) arising out of or
relating to an employee’s employment with the Company will first attempt to be
settled through good-faith negotiation.” (Mot., Patel Decl. Ex. C.) However, ‘good-faith
negotiation’ does not connote an employer-controlled dispute resolution mechanism.
(Compare Nyulassi v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267,
1282-83 [Plaintiff specifically required to submit to discussions with his supervisors
as a condition precedent to having his dispute resolved through arbitration.]) 
Thus, De Leon has failed to show
substantive unconscionability on this ground. 
Finally, De Leon argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it requires him
to pay costs that are unique to arbitration.  Paragraph 2 of the Arbitration Agreement
provides: “The Company agrees to pay all arbitration forum fees and all fees
and expenses charged by the arbitrator. Each party will bear its own attorneys’
fees and costs.” As a provision that would preclude plaintiff from recovering
fees and costs from the defendant if plaintiff is the prevailing party, as he
would be entitled to under the FEHA, De Leon is correct that “an arbitration
agreement may not limit statutorily imposed remedies such as punitive damages
and attorneys fees.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
(2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 103.) 
Thus, De Leon has shown substantive
unconscionability on this ground. However, this provision is severable, since
this arbitration agreement is not permeated with illegal contract terms, and
there is a single provision that this Court can strike to remove the
unconscionable taint from the agreement. (Armendariz, supra, at pp. 123-125.)
Elsewhere in the Agreement, there is a provision that provides that the “arbitrator
is specifically authorized to award either party any and all remedies that the
party would otherwise be entitled to under state or federal law, as if the matter
were brought in a civil court of competent jurisdiction.” (Rishwain Decl., Exhibit
A at ¶ 5, pp. 1-2.) Thus to avoid any ambiguity and unconscionability, the
Court can simply strike the language that each party will bear its own fees.
Based on the foregoing, De Leon has
only shown a small degree of procedural and substantive unconscionability.
Accordingly, Allied Digital’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The single
provision “Each party will bear its own attorneys’ fees and costs” in paragraph
2 on page 1 of Exhibit A to the Rishwain Declaration is stricken.
III. Conclusion
Defendant Allied Digital Services,
LLC motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is GRANTED. 