On September 29, 2023, HMC Assets, LLC, solely as separate trustee of the CAM XI TRUST, filed the operative Complaint against Defendants 10535 Vestone Way, LLC (the “LLC”) and John Levin for (1) breach of guaranty and (2) conversion.  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Plaintiff’s predecessor loaned $10,000,000 to the LLC, and Levin signed an accompanying guaranty.  The LLC then defaulted on the loan and refused to turn over rents it was collecting.  This was conversion.  Plaintiff subsequently foreclosed against the LLC’s real property and recovered $8,840,000.  At the time of foreclosure, the debt due was $11,741,004.04.  Therefore, Levin still owes $2,901,004.04.DemurrersThe LLC and Levin demur to the Complaint for lack of standing and failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Levin challenges the first cause of action for breach of guaranty for lack of standing, contending: “Plaintiff seeks to enforce an Amended and Restated Guaranty (the ‘Amended Guaranty’) dated January 17, made in favor of non-party Civic Financial Services, LLC (‘Lender’). The Amended Guaranty pertains to a prior loan made by Lender to Vestone Way documented in a January 30, 2018 promissory note (the ‘Note’). Plaintiff is not a party to the Amended Guaranty.” This lacks merit as the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff is the successor in interest to Civic Financial Services, LLC, Civic Securitization Trust 1 and Civic Holdings III Trust with respect to the loan and guaranty which are the subject of this action.”  This is sufficient for the pleadings stage.  The Court notes that the Reply fails to discuss the standing issue.Next, Defendants argue that the conversion claim fails because (a) a mere contractual right of payment is not sufficient to establish conversion; (b) this claim refers to an unspecified amount of money; and (c) “under the deed of trust the Lender explicitly consented to Defendants receiving and retaining rental income until a ‘notice of default’ is served, and there is no allegation that it was ever served, and until a notice to tenants is served, and there is no allegation that it was ever served. The Complaint implicitly concedes that borrower Vestone Way was within its rights to collect rents prior to Plaintiff sending a notice of default following the alleged breach.”  Levin also argues that he cannot be liable because he “was not obligated under the deed of trust that supposedly forms the basis of Plaintiff’s conversion claim.”The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.  (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.)  Where money is the subject of a conversion claim, the precise amount of funds misappropriated must be specified.  (Kim v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284-285.)  The Complaint states: “As a result of the service of the Notice of Assignment of Rents on Defendants, Plaintiff had a right as of that date to ownership and possession of the Rents from the Property and /or the checks, money orders or other negotiable instruments representing the Rents from the Property. This right arose by virtue of Plaintiffs ownership of the Note, the Guaranty, its beneficial interest in the Deed of Trust, and the Assignment of Rents that was delivered to Defendants in the first week of October 2020.”The Complaint further states: “A Demand for Assignment of Rents was served on LEVIN and the LLC by Plaintiffs predecessor in interest pursuant to the terms of the Deed of Trust and CA Civil Code § 2938 in the first week of October of 2020, but, despite the payment of rents by the tenants of the Property to the LLC in the amount of $55,000.00 per month between October 2020 and January 2021, none of those rents were paid to Plaintiff or its predecessors in interest.”A specific amount of money has been identified—Plaintiff is seeking $220,000.  (See, e.g., Compl. ¶ 18.)  Any uncertainty relating to this amount is a matter of discovery and amendment.  Further, the right to payment is not alleged to be merely contractual.  Rather, the assignment of rents was sufficient to create a security interest.  (Civ. Code § 2938.)  Defendants fail to explain why this is not a possessory interest.  Additionally, Defendants’ arguments improperly raise factual disputes as to compliance with the deed of trust.  The Complaint sufficiently indicates that the demand for rent was “pursuant to the terms of the Deed of Trust and CA Civil Code § 2938.”  Further facts can be obtained in discovery.  On the other hand, it is not clear why Levin would be liable for the second cause of action, which is apparently premised on the subject deed of trust that did not include Levin as a party.  The Opposition only indicates that “As the Managing Member of the LLC . . . it is likely that Levin was responsible for the action or inaction with respect to the rents received by the LLC.”  This is not a sufficient explanation.  In sum, the Demurrer of the LLC is overruled.  The Demurrer of Levin is overruled as to the first cause of action, but sustained as to the second cause of action.  Leave to amend is to be argued.  The Requests for Judicial Notice are granted.Motions to Strike Defendants also seek to strike the Complaint’s references to punitive damages.Motions to strike are used to challenge defects in the pleadings not subject to demurrer.  Any party may move to strike the whole or any part of a pleading within the time allotted to respond to the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).)  The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the Court is required to take judicial notice.  (Id. § 437(a).)  The Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id. § 436.)  An “irrelevant” matter includes any “demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Id. § 431.10(b)(3), (c); see also Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1036-1042.)Punitive damages are available when the plaintiff establishes oppression, fraud, or malice by clear and convincing evidence.  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  Malice means “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(1).)  In this context, despicable conduct is conduct considered “so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Oppression means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).)  Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(3).) Levin’s Motion to Strike is granted because the conversion claim against him was subject to demurrer.  Leave to amend is to be argued. The LLC’s Motion to Strike is denied because it is alleged that the LLC did not wish to tender rents so as to damage Plaintiff “by preventing it from being able to use the Rents to pay for property taxes, insurance, repairs and marketing costs for the Property.   Instead, Plaintiff was required to advance these and other costs necessary to market and sell the Property to recover the amounts owed under the Loan.”  The LLC is ordered to file an answer within 20 days.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.