On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs Mark Fleming and Candace Nichols filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Victor Robles and Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transport Authority (“LACMTA”) for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) negligence.  The allegations of the Complaint are as follows.  Plaintiffs were driving their vehicle when Defendant Robles, who was driving a Tesla, collided with the driver’s side of Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  Robles attempted to flee the scene, but eventually pulled over and exchanged information with Plaintiffs.  During the exchange of information, a bus operated by LACMTA struck Plaintiffs’ vehicle.  LACMTA now demurs to the Complaint for uncertainty and failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)LACMTA first argues that “Plaintiffs' first and second causes of action do not meet this mandatory pleading standard against a public entity since neither cause of action alleges a statutory basis for liability against Defendant LACMTA based on either direct or vicarious liability. Plaintiffs' entire Complaint fails to identify the applicable statute(s) as is required when asserting liability against a public entity. (Searcy, supra, 177 Cal.App.3d at 802.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs must be forced to allege the statutory basis for liability if they intend to proceed against Defendant LACMTA”This argument mostly lacks merit.  Gov. Code § 815.2(a) states that “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.”  Here, the Complaint seems to allege that LACMTA is liable as a result of its employee, Melissa Conway, driving a bus negligently.LACMTA next argues that Plaintiffs have not alleged compliance with the Government Claims Act.Under the Government Claims Act, all claims for money or damages against local public entities generally must be presented to those entities before formal legal action may be pursued. (Arntz Builders v. City of Berkeley (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 276, 279.)  The purpose of this general requirement is to provide public entities with notice of claims. (Ibid.)  Notice in turn provides the opportunity to settle just claims and to investigate and defend against unjust claims. (Id. at p. 298.)“[A] plaintiff may allege compliance with the claims presentation requirement in the Government Claims Act by including a general allegation that he or she timely complied with the claims statute.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1237.) Here, Plaintiffs are seeking money against LACMTA, a government entity, but there is no allegation that they filed a timely government claim.  Therefore, the Demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to amend.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.