 On December 13, 2021, Plaintiff Brendan Schulz filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants Pitzer College (“Pitzer”), Janet Schwing, Nigel Boyle, and Melvin Oliver for (1) violation of the Unruh Act, (2) attempted extortion, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (4) breach of contract, (5) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (6) intentional misrepresentation, (7) false promise, (8) willful misconduct, (9) reckless misconduct, and (10) concealment. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that Pitzer failed to accommodate him as a student after he suffered a concussion because Plaintiff is a Jew.Requests for Production Plaintiff, a pro per litigant, seeks to compel further responses from Pitzer as to his requests for production, set one, nos. 1-15. The Motion is denied as to request nos. 1-2, 4, and 11, which are overbroad and not commensurate with scope of this suit. The Motion is granted as to request no. 3 because the documents are relevant to establishing whether Plaintiff’s management of funds was inappropriate.   The Motion is granted as to request no. 5, which is relevant to punitive damages. The Motion is denied as to request nos. 6-7 because the relevance of these documents, including a map, is not apparent. The Motion is denied as to request nos. 8-10 because Defendant indicated that responsive documents would be produced. The Motion is granted as to request nos. 12-14 because they are relevant to establishing whether Plaintiff’s requests were mishandled. The Motion is granted as to request no. 15, which seeks communications about the Plaintiff. In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth above.  Further responses and production are to be provided within 30 days.  Requests for Admission Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to his requests for admission, set one, nos. 1-35 from Pitzer. The Motion is granted as to request nos. 1-8, 10-17, and 19-35 because the objections lack merit. The Motion is denied as to request nos. 9 and 18, which are compound in nature.   In Sum, the Motion is granted in part.  Further responses as to be provided within 30 days.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.