  Case Number:  22CHCV00812    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 1/22/24
Case #22CHCV00812
 
MOTION TERMINATING
SANCTIONS
Motion filed on 11/09/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Anthony Joseph Lazzara, Jr.
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Mercedes-Benz
of Valencia, Trophy Automotive Dealer Group, LLC, Second Motor Group of
Valencia, LLC and Kasra Foroutan 
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting
terminating sanctions, or in the alternative, issue sanctions, evidentiary
sanctions and adverse inference jury instructions pursuant to Evidence Code 413
against Defendants Mercedes-Benz of Valencia, Trophy Automotive Dealer Group,
LLC and Second Motor Group of Valencia, LLC.

 
RULING: The motion is denied, in part, and
granted, in part, as set forth below.   
 
FACTUAL SUMMARY & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Anthony Joseph
Lazzara, Jr.’s (Plaintiff) employment and termination thereof, on 4/13/21, with
Defendant Second Motor Group, LLC (SMG). 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant Trophy Automotive Dealer Group, LLC (Trophy)
is the sole member of SMG and 100% owner of the company.
 
Plaintiff alleges that he first worked as a salesperson for
Defendant Mercedes-Benz of Valencia (MB Valencia) from December 2005 to April
2012.  (Complaint ¶12).  Plaintiff alleges he returned to work as a
salesperson for MB Valencia in 2016 and sometime in 2017 MB Valencia was
acquired by Trophy.  (Id.
¶¶13-14).  Plaintiff alleges he continued
to work for MB Valencia and was hired by Trophy on or about 9/6/17.  (Id. ¶14).  When Trophy acquired MB Valencia, Defendant
Kasra Foroutan (Foroutan) was made general sales manager of the dealership and
was Plaintiff’s direct supervisor.  (Id.
¶15).  Plaintiff alleges from that time
until his termination in April 2021, Foroutan made numerous unwanted sexual
advances toward him of which Plaintiff complained to Foroutan and to the former
general manager of MB Valencia and current president of Trophy, Chris Paz.  (Id. ¶¶16-20).  
 
Plaintiff also alleges that he complained to Foroutan and
the Human Resources lead, Missy Forbes, at MB Valencia that a supervisor, Islam
Gad, was selling vehicles that Plaintiff and his coworkers had special-ordered
for their clients to buyers in China via a broker.  (Complaint ¶¶22-23).  Plaintiff alleges that despite complaints
nothing was done to stop this practice. 
(Id. ¶23).  Plaintiff
further alleges that in late 2018-2019, he became aware that the finance
department at MB Valencia was “packing” car loans and charging customers a
higher rate of interest than what those customers thought they were agreeing
to.  (Id. ¶24).  Plaintiff alleges that he complained about the
“packing” of loans to Foroutan; Foroutan became worried that Plaintiff would
report the dealership to Mercedes-Benz corporate and, as a result, Foroutan
retaliated against Plaintiff in the form of unnecessary and improper
write-ups.  (Complaint ¶¶25-26).
Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants discriminated
against him due to a disability and failed to accommodate same.  (Complaint ¶¶28, 36-45).
 
During Plaintiff’s employment, Plaintiff had a “personal
relationship”/“close friendship” with Tom Swire (Swire), who at the time was a
Service and Parts Director at the dealership. 
(See Lazzara Decl. ¶3; Swire Decl. ¶¶2, 4; D. Cutting Decl. ¶5).  Swire was never Plaintiff’s manager and did
not supervise Plaintiff’s work.  (Swire
Decl. ¶2).  On or around 6/1/21, after
Plaintiff’s termination, Swire was promoted to General Manager of the
dealership.  (Swire Decl. ¶3; D. Cutting
Decl. ¶5).
 
On 10/3/22, Plaintiff filed this action against MB
Valencia, Trophy, SMG and Foroutan for: (1) harassment in violation of the
California FEHA, (2) discrimination on the basis of disability, (3)
discrimination on the basis of sex and/or gender, (4) harassment on the basis
of disability, (5) failure to prevent, investigate and remedy discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation, (6) failure to accommodate disability, (7) failure
to engage in the interactive process to accommodate disability, (8) aiding,
abetting, inciting, compelling, or coercing acts forbidden by FEHA, (9)
retaliation for opposing practices forbidden by FEHA, (10) wrongful
termination, (11) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (12) negligent
infliction of emotional distress, (13) negligent hiring, retention and
supervision, and (14) whistleblower retaliation. 
 
In October of 2022, Plaintiff served SMG with requests
for production of documents which included a request for communications between
employees and Plaintiff.  (D. Cutting
Reply Decl. ¶¶2-3, Ex.1, No.58).  After
meet and confer efforts, Defendants’ former counsel agreed to produce
responsive documents with certain limitations. 
(Id. ¶4).  In response to
the request, no text messages between Plaintiff and Swire were produced.  (Id. ¶¶5-7). 
 
At Swire’s 9/21/23 deposition, Swire testified that he
has a practice of deleting text messages from his personal phone daily and that
during a meeting with Plaintiff at a Starbucks in June 2021, Swire
“accidentally” deleted all of the text communications between himself and
Plaintiff from Plaintiff’s personal phone. 
(D. Cutting Decl. ¶¶6-8, Ex.1).
 
On 11/9/23, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion
seeking an order granting terminating sanctions, or in the alternative, issue
sanctions, evidentiary sanctions and adverse inference jury instructions
pursuant to Evidence Code 413 against MB Valencia, Trophy and SMG
(collectively, Defendants).  Defendants
have opposed the motion and Plaintiff has filed a reply to the opposition.    
 
ANALYSIS 
 
“The duty to preserve evidence arises when the party in
possession and/or control of the electronically stored information was
objectively aware the evidence was relevant to reasonably foreseeable future
litigation, meaning the future litigation was probable or likely to arise from
an event.”  Victor Valley Union High
School District (2023) 91 CA5th 1121, 1138.
 
Even if it was foreseeable to Defendants that Plaintiff
would likely file litigation regarding his termination soon after in occurred
in April of 2021, Plaintiff has failed to establish that Defendants had
possession and/or control of the text messages between Plaintiff and Swire, or
that Defendants were even aware that such communications existed.  The evidence establishes that the messages
were on Plaintiff and Swire’s personal cell phones, not cell phones owned
and/or issued by Defendants.  (D. Cutting
Decl. ¶8; Lazzara Decl., generally; Swire Decl. ¶5; Obied Decl. ¶7). 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff has failed to establish, as a
matter of law, that Defendants can be held responsible for Swire’s deletion of
the text messages from both his and/or Plaintiff’s personal phones.  Generally, in California, the scope of
employment has been interpreted broadly under the respondeat superior
doctrine.  Farmers Insurance Group
(1995) 11 C4th 992, 1004.  However, an
employer is not strictly liable for all actions of its employees during work
hours.  Id.  Here, the evidence indicates that Swire
deleted the text messages with Plaintiff from Swire’s own phone as part of his
regular course of practice.  When Swire
deleted the text thread from Plaintiff’s phone, whether intentionally or
accidentally, it was during a meeting with Plaintiff at a Starbucks whereat the
two were seemingly working together on their efforts to have Plaintiff’s
employment reinstated.  (Lazzara Decl.;
Swire Decl.).  The evidence further
establishes that after Swire deleted the messages from Plaintiff’s phone,
Plaintiff informed Swire that he had retrieved them.  (Lazzara Decl. ¶15; Swire Decl. ¶10).  
 
Even if it could be said that Swire was acting within the
scope of his employment with Defendants when he deleted the messages from
Plaintiff’s phone, as noted above, Lazzara informed Swire that he had retrieved
the evidence shortly after the June 2021 meeting, essentially alleviating any
need for Swire or Defendants to make attempts to retrieve the information.  It was not until the filing of this motion,
more than two years later, that Plaintiff seeks to essentially have judgment
entered in his favor by default as to his 5th, 8th, 9th,
10th, 11th, 12th and 14th causes of
action.  (See Motion,
p.9:19-p.10:3).  The alternative evidence
and/or issue sanctions requested by Plaintiff would essentially have the same
result and the terminating sanctions requested. 

 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to establish
that such harsh sanctions are warranted under the circumstances.  Similarly, Plaintiff has failed to establish
that the specific jury instruction requested is warranted.  
 
However, the Court finds that based on the evidence
presented by Plaintiff and Defendants, which will presumably be presented at
trial, the trier of fact could conclude that Defendants, acting through Swire,
acted to destroy the text messages. 
Therefore, pursuant to Evidence Code 413, the Court will give the
following jury instruction: 
 
“You may consider whether one party
intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence. If you decide that a party did
so, you may decide that the evidence would have been unfavorable to that party.”
 
 
CACI 204    
 
CONCLUSION
 
The request for terminating, evidentiary and/or issue
sanctions is denied.  The request for adverse
jury instruction is granted, in part, as set forth above, and otherwise
denied.  
 
   
 
 