 Case Number:  24STCV12488    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
10, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Larisza Dacjuk v. Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV12488
 





















 
MOTION
TO SUBSTITUTE ESTATE OF LARISZA DACJUK 
FOR
DECEASED PLAINTIFF LARISZA DACJUK
      


 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Natalia Bucs, as Successor in Interest of the Estate of Larisza Dacjuk
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff Larisza Dacjuk (Dacjuk) filed a
complaint for This is a motor vehicle negligence against Defendants Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and John Doe.  
 
            On June 15,
2024, Ms. Dacjuk passed away.
 
            On August 26,
2024, Petitioner Natalia Bucs, Ms. Dacjuk’s only daughter, filed this motion for
an order substituting herself as Ms. Dacjuk’s Successor-in-Interest.  
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “A
pending action or proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the
cause of action survives.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.)  “On motion
after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court
shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued
by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s
successor in interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
 
            The
person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending
action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest shall execute and
file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of
this state stating: (1) The decedent’s name, (2) The date and place of the
decedent’s death, (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate,” (4) If the decedent’s estate was
administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest, (5) Either of the
following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person
has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted
for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements
are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.32.)  
 
            A
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the
affidavit or declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Upon review of the papers, the Court finds
the Declaration of Natalia Bucs complies with the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.32.  Accordingly, Petitioner makes a sufficient
showing that she is Ms. Dacjuk’s successor-in-interest.
             
IV. 
     CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Natalia Bucs is substituted as Plaintiff Larisza
Dacjuk’s Successor-in-Interest.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 10,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
 
            