 Case Number:  22STCV11560    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 10, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  November
18, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Jesus Sanchez v. Executive Building Solutions, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV11560
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL VERIFIED RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Jesus Sanchez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Executive
Building Solutions, Inc.
 
 
I.
         INTRODUCTION
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff Jesus Sanchez filed this Motion To
Compel Defendant Executive Building Solutions, Inc. to Provide Verified
Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant.  
 
On August 21, 2024, Counsel for Defendant filed a declaration
indicating that Defendant intends to prepare, file, and serve verified
responses to the interrogatories before the scheduled hearing. 
 
            Plaintiff
has not filed a reply.  
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the court finds that this motion is MOOT.  The court proceeds to rule on Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions. 
 
II.        DISCUSSION
& LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery
sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without
limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial justification,
an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to
discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification making or
opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿          If
sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that
the notice specify the identity of the person against whom sanctions are sought
and the type of sanction requested, that the motion be supported in the points
and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the
amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
If the court finds that a party has
unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel responses to interrogatories,
the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (c).)¿ 
            Here, it is undisputed that
Defendant did not timely serve responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories.  The court finds sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed
against Defendant in the sum of $610, consisting of one hour at Plaintiff’s
counsel’s hourly rate and $60 in filing fees.
III.       CONCLUSION
            The motion
is Moot.     
            The
request for sanctions is Granted.  Defendant Executive Building Solutions,
Inc. is ordered to pay sanctions in the amount of $610 to Plaintiff, by and
through his counsel, within 30 days of this order.      
Moving party to give
notice.  


Dated:   October 10, 2024                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 
 