 Case Number:  24STCV09388    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
10, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                Charles Swenson, et al. v. Crestbrook Insurance Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      24STCV09388
 





















 
DEMURRERS
WITHOUT MOTIONS TO STRIKE
      


 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendants Insight Forensics LLC
and Blake R. Lander 
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs Charles Swenson Laverne
Swenson  
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            This action arises from the denial of an insurance claim.  A residence owned by Charles and Laverne
Swenson (Plaintiffs) sustained damage from wind-driven rain which entered the
structure through a wind-created opening. 
Plaintiffs had a homeowners insurance policy issued by defendant
Crestbook Insurance Company (Crestbrook). Plaintiffs submitted timely a
claim.  Crestbrook retained defendant
Insight Forensics LLC (Insight) and Insight engineer, Blake R. Lander (Lander).  Insight and Lander submitted reports regarding
the damage to Plaintiffs’ residence.  As
Plaintiffs allege, Crestbrook denied substantial portions of  Plaintiffs’ claims based on those
reports.  Plaintiffs further allege the
reports contained false and misleading information regarding the cause of the
loss and the damage. 
 
On April 15, 2024, Plaintiffs commenced this action against
Crestbrook, Insight, and Lander, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
and (3) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq.  The first and second causes of action are
asserted against Crestbrook. The third cause of action is asserted against
Insight and Lander.  
 
On July 30 and 31, 2024, Insight and Lander (hereafter, Defendants)
filed demurrers to the third cause of action.  
 
Plaintiff filed a consolidated opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
Because Defendants filed identical demurrers, the court
addresses them together.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Defendants argue the third cause of action for violation of
the Unfair Competition Law (UCL) fails for three general reasons: (1) consultants
of insurance companies cannot be liable for violating the UCL; (2) their
actions did not cause injury to Plaintiffs; and (3) the request for injunctive
relief is defective.
 
Defendants’ first argument is premised on the proposition
that agents of an insurance company are not subject to bad faith liability
because they do not enter into contracts with policyholders that promise to pay
covered claims.  In support of the
foregoing proposition, Defendants cite Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973)
9 Cal.3d 566 (Gruenberg) and Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden Claims
Services, Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249 (Sanchez).  In Gruenberg, the California Supreme
Court stated that the non-insurer defendants, which included an adjusting
company, an individual adjuster, the outside coverage law firm, and the
individual coverage attorney, “were not parties to the agreements for
insurance; therefore, they are not … subject to an implied duty of good faith
and fair dealing.”  (Gruenberg, at
p. 576.)  The Sanchez court
likewise noted “California courts have refused to extend liability for bad
faith, the predominant insurer tort, to agents and employees of the
insurer.”  (Sanchez, at pp.
254-255.)  Based on this authority, Defendants
correctly state an insurance company’s agents cannot be liable for bad faith because
only the insurance company, as the issuer of and signatory to the policy, has a
duty of good faith.
 
Gruenberg and
Sanchez are inapposite for at least two reasons.  First, this authority forecloses only breach
of contract and breach of implied covenant claims.  Neither case dealt with whether an insurance
company’s agent or consultant may be liable for a UCL violation.  
 
Second, Defendants argue the UCL claim fails because
Plaintiffs don’t allege the breach of a duty owed to Plaintiffs.  The argument is misguided.  Duty is not an element of a UCL violation.  Moreover, the UCL claim is not premised on
Defendants’ breach of duties arising from contract.  Instead, it is premised on violation of Penal
Code section 550, subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(2).   
 
A review of the elements of a UCL cause of action, and the
Plaintiffs allegations proves the point.  The UCL is codified at Business and
Professions Code, section 17200 et seq.¿ Section 17204 of the UCL states that a
private person “who has suffered injury in fact and has lost money or property
as a result of the unfair competition” may bring a 17200 action.¿ (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17204.)¿ There must be a causal link between the defendant’s
conduct and the plaintiff’s injury. (Hall v. Time Inc. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 847, 855.)  “To bring a UCL
claim, a plaintiff must show either an (1) unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business act or practice, or (2) unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising. [Citation.]¿ Because the UCL is written in the disjunctive, it
establishes three varieties of unfair competition—acts or practices which are
unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent.”¿ (Adhav v. Midway Rent A Car, Inc. (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 954, 970, citations and quotations omitted.)¿ A UCL claim that
is based on the “unlawful” prong of the statute “borrows” violations of other
laws and make those unlawful practices separately actionable through the UCL. (Klein
v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1383.)
 
Here, as alleged in the Complaint, Crestbrook retained
Insight and Lander to investigate the claim and to prepare reports detailing
both the cause of loss and the cost of repairing the damage. (Complaint, ¶ 27.)
 Insight and Lander purposely failed to
conduct a full and fair investigation and intentionally refused to examine
evidence submitted to them by Plaintiffs and their public adjuster. (Id.,
¶ 29.)  Lander refused to climb up on the
roof of the residence and conduct a visual inspection of the damage. (Ibid.)
 Lander failed to thoroughly inspect the
interior of the residence and failed to conduct any testing to assess the
condition of the interior walls and framing. (Ibid.)  Insight and Lander then submitted false and
misleading reports to Crestbrook. (Complaint, ¶ 29.)  Their reports falsely and fraudulently stated
that the damage to the residence was not the result of rain penetrating the
structure through wind-created openings (a covered cause of loss), but rather
resulted from faulty construction, repairs or maintenance (non-covered causes
of loss). (Ibid.)  Crestbrook used
the reports presented by Insight and Lander to deny large portions of
Plaintiffs’ claim. (Ibid.)  Insight
and Lander submitted their reports to Crestbrook with full knowledge of the
misleading nature and falsity of the reports, thereby violating various
California laws, including Penal Code section 550 subdivisions (b)(1) and
(b)(2). (Complaint, ¶ 30.)  The acts and
omissions of Insight and Lander constitute ongoing business practices and were
intended to unfairly minimize the claim liability of Crestbrook to the
detriment of legitimate claimants such as Plaintiffs. (Id., ¶ 31.)  Crestbrook used the reports presented by
Insight and Lander to deny large portions of Plaintiffs’ claim, causing direct
injury to Plaintiffs. (Complaint, ¶¶ 29, 32.)  Plaintiffs are informed and believe that many
other insureds of Crestbrook, whose claims have been or are being investigated
by Insight and Lander have or will suffer similar injury as a result of the
ongoing unfair competition of Insight and Lander. (Id., ¶ 32.)  Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief against
Insight and Lander. (Id., ¶ 33.)  
 
In short, Plaintiffs allege (1) an injury (the denial of
their claim due to Defendants’ false/fraudulent report); and (2) a business
practice (Defendants providing false reports to Crestbrook to minimize claim
liability), which is (3) unlawful (violation of Penal Code section 550,
subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(2)[1]).[2]
 Plaintiffs state a UCL claim. 
 
Several of Defendants remaining arguments gain little
traction.  First, Defendants argue
Plaintiffs fail to cite authority that confirms the proposition that a
plaintiff can bring a UCL claim against an insurance adjuster.  True,
Plaintiff does not meet Defendants’ challenge.  By the same token,
however, Defendants fail to cite authority for the proposition that a plaintiff
cannot sue a claims adjuster based under the UCL.[3]
  On its face, as discussed above, the UCL statute provides a legal basis
to bring such a suit.    
 
Next, Defendants argue the demurrer should be sustained
because Plaintiffs fail to establish a causal link between the alleged
misconduct (submitting false reports) and Plaintiffs’ harm (denial of their
claim).  Defendants believe their
liability is legally severed because Crestbrook, as the insurer, is directly and
solely responsible for Plaintiffs’ harm. 
Defendants misconstrue “causal link” to mean “direct link.”  Defendants provide no authority to support
such an interpretation.  
 
Defendants also argue Plaintiffs do not allege an economic
injury and thus do not have standing to bring a UCL claim.  In support, Defendants focus on Crestbrook’s
conduct.  As Defendants explain, Crestbrook
denied or underpaid the claim.  Insight
is not the party that withheld policy benefits. 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ economic injury, if any, flows from Crestbrook’s
conduct.  This, however, is a variation
of the “direct link” argument that the court considered and rejected.  Simply because Defendants did not ultimately
decide the merits of Plaintiffs’ insurance claim does not mean they were not a substantial
factor in causing such harm.  Moreover, the
court has determined Plaintiffs have suffered an economic injury.  Plaintiffs have standing.  
 
Defendants rally, however, when they point out that Plaintiffs’
injunction request is unworkable and disfavored because it amounts to an order
to “obey the law.”[4]  Defendants also make a good point when they state
the injunctive relief requested is based, in part, upon harm to an unspecified
class of people.  Such a request may be
improper here because Plaintiffs have not pled a class action.  Plaintiffs do not address either argument.  These points are well taken and should be
addressed by Plaintiffs.  The court will
hear from counsel and may order further briefing on these topics.  
    
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The court
will hear from the parties.
 
Dated:   October 10,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 


