


[1] Subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(2) of
Penal Code section 550 state: “It is unlawful to do, or to knowingly assist or
conspire with any person to do, any of the following:
(1) Present
or cause to be presented any written or oral statement as part of, or in
support of or opposition to, a claim for payment or other benefit pursuant to
an insurance policy, knowing that the statement contains any false or
misleading information concerning any material fact.
(2) Prepare
or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented to any
insurer or any insurance claimant in connection with, or in support of or
opposition to, any claim or payment or other benefit pursuant to an insurance
policy, knowing that the statement contains any false or misleading information
concerning any material fact.”


[2] In reply, Defendants argue that Penal
Code section 550, subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(2) does not apply to a consultant
who provides a neutral professional opinion rather than a statement in support
of or opposition to an insurance claim. 
Defendants do not cite any authority in support of that
proposition.  Moreover, even if
Defendants’ position were correct, Plaintiffs do not allege Defendants provided
“professional opinions.”  Rather,
Plaintiffs allege Defendants provided “false and fraudulent reports” which Crestrbook
relied on in denying portions of Plaintiffs’ insurance claim.  


[3] Defendants cite Textron
Financial Corp. v. National Union Fire Ins. Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1061.  In Textron, the trial court
sustained a demurrer without leave to amend to a UCL claim brought against an
insurer and its claims adjuster based on the rule in that where an insured's
UCL cause of action is based on common law claims amounting to the type of
activities covered by the Unfair Insurance Practices Act, it is barred by Moradi–Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Companies (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287.  Textron is unavailing.  This portion of Textron has been
expressly disapproved by the California Supreme Court’s decision in Zhang v.
Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 380 (“Thus, our cases do not support
the Textron court's view that UCL actions may not be brought for
“the type of activities covered by the UIPA.”). 
In other words, Textron does not foreclose a UCL claim against an
insurer’s agent or consultant for allegedly providing false or fraudulent
reports concerning an insurance claim.     


[4] In
support of the foregoing proposition, Defendants cite Von Staich v.
Schwarzenegger (E.D. Cal. May 14, 2009, No. CIV S-05-1235 GEB GGH P) 2009
WL 1390791 and Brady v. United of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (N.D. Cal. 2012)
902 F.Supp.2d 1274.  Neither case
concerned injunctive relief in the context of a UCL claim.  

