 Case Number:  23STCV11928    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  MYRNA RAMOS, et al.,   Plaintiffs, v.  TRUE HOME, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24STCV11928     Hearing Date:  December 4, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANT center street lending    viii, spe, llc’s DEMURRER TO and    motion to strike COMPLAINT    BACKGROUND This case arises from a real estate deal between Defendant Bye Bye House, Inc. and Plaintiff Myrna Ramos, Plaintiff’s mother in law is Birgitta Sjostrand.  Plaintiff is the administrator of the estate of Mrs. Sjostrand.  Plaintiff claims the sale of the home was fraudulent.  (Compl. 2:3-4.)  Defendant Center Street Lending VIII, SPE, LLC (“Center Street”) provided the financing for Bye Bye House, Inc. to purchase the home.   Previously, Plaintiff’s husband and Mrs. Sjostrand’s son, Peter Sjostrand, filed a complaint against Center Street, and several other defendants, including Bye Bye House, Inc., Prominent Escrow, and notary Julie Proctor, alleging fraud and seeking quiet title to his mother’s home.  (Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”), Ex. 1.)  Mr. Sjostrand subsequently filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). (RJN Ex. 2.)  Center demurred to the FAC (RJN Ex. 3), and the demurrer was sustained with leave to amend.  (RJN Ex. 4.)  Mr. Sjostrand failed to amend the complaint, and the Court entered a judgment of dismissal in favor of Center Street with prejudice.  (RJN, Ex. 7).   Plaintiff filed the present Complaint on May 13, 2024.  Plaintiff, who is Peter Sjostrand’s wife and the administrator of Mrs. Sjostrand’s estate, alleges six causes of action against Center Street for: (1) fraud; (2) elder abuse; (3) common law negligence; (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); and (5) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”).    This hearing is on Center Street’s demurrer to the Complaint.  Center Street argues that (1) Plaintiff’s claims are barred by res judicata and/or collateral estoppel; (2) all claims against Center Street fail because they are uncertain; (3) Plaintiff’s fraud claim fails because Plaintiff has not plead fraud with particularity, including failing to allege the specific names of the persons who made the misrepresentations, their authority to speak for Center Street, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote and when it was said or written; (4) Plaintiff’s claim for elder abuse fails because Plaintiff has not alleged all essential elements of the claim against Center Street; (5) Plaintiff’s claims for negligence and NIED fail because as a lender, Center Street does not owe Plaintiff a duty of care; and (6) Plaintiff’s IIED claim fails to allege that Mrs. Sjostrand suffered “severe” emotional distress.  There was no opposition filed as of the posting of this tentative ruling.   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Center Street seeks judicial notice of (1) the Complaint filed by Peter Sjostrand in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534; (2) the First Amended Complaint filed by Peter Sjostrand in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534; (3) the demurrer to First Amended Complaint filed by Defendants Bye Bye House and Center Street Lending VIII SPE, LLC on November 21, 2022, in the Superior Court, County of Los Angeles, in the case entitled Peter Sjostrand v. Julie Proctor, et al., Case Number 22SMCV00534; (4) Minute Order sustaining demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint issued on March 2, 2023, in the Superior Court, County of Los Angeles, in the case entitled Peter Sjostrand v. Julie Proctor, et al., Case Number 22SMCV00534; (5) ex parte application to dismiss issued on April 20, 2023, in the Superior Court, County of Los Angeles, in the case entitled Peter Sjostrand v. Julie Proctor, et al., Case Number 22SMCV00534; (6) Order of Dismissal, issued on April 26, 2023, in the Superior Court, County of Los Angeles, in the case entitled Peter Sjostrand v. Julie Proctor, et al., Case Number 22SMCV00534; and (7) Notice of Entry of Judgment filed May 11, 2023, in the Superior Court, County of Los Angeles, in the case entitled Peter Sjostrand v. Julie Proctor, et al., Case Number 22SMCV00534. Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d) permits a court to take judicial notice of records of any court of the state of California.  Further, judicial notice of such documents is mandatory under Evid. Code § 453 “if a party requests it and (a) [g]ives each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or otherwise, to enable such party to prepare to meet the request; and (b) [f]urnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of the matter.”    However, while the existence of any document in a court file may be judicially noticed, the truth of the matters asserted in those documents, including the factual findings of the judge who was sitting as the trier of fact, is not entitled to judicial notice.  A court may take judicial notice that a prior order was entered, but it may not take judicial notice of the truth of factual findings made therein.  (Steed v. Department of Consumer Affairs (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 112, 121.)  Accordingly, while the Court takes judicial notice of the court records in Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534, it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted therein.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Center Street submits the Declaration of Paul Kurtzhall which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone on September 12, 2024, which is more than five days before the demurrer was filed on November 5, 2024.  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41. DISCUSSION Center Street argues that Plaintiff’s complaint is barred by res judicata and/or collateral estoppel based on the judgment of dismissal with prejudice in the prior action.  The Court agrees. “Under the doctrine of res judicata, . . . a judgment for the defendant serves as a bar to further litigation of the same cause of action. [¶] . . . Under this doctrine, all claims based on the same cause of action must be decided in a single suit; if not brought initially, they may not be raised at a later date.” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 896-897.)  Res judicata or claim preclusion arises “if a second suit involves (1) the same cause of action (2) between the same parties (3) after a final judgment on the merits in the first suit. If claim preclusion is established, it operates to bar relitigation of the claim altogether. Claim preclusion also ‘bars claims that could have been raised in the first proceeding . . . .’.” (Thompson v. Ioane, 11 Cal.App.5th at 1190-1191.)  All three elements are met here.   First, claim preclusion bars litigation of not only issues that were actually litigated but also “issues that could have been litigated.”  (Federation of Hillside & Canyon Assns., 126 Cal.App.4th at 1201.)  In the prior action, Mrs. Sjostrand’s heir asserted claims based on allegations that (1) Plaintiff was the successor trustee of his mother’s trust, and (2) that Bye Bye House fraudulently purchased the Property previously owned in his mother’s trust with financing from Center Street. (RJN, Ex. 2, pgs. 2-6.)  Likewise in this action, Plaintiff asserts claims based on the allegations that (1) she is the administrator of the estate of Mrs. Sjostrand, and (2) Center Street participated in the financing for the sale of the Property. (See Compl., pgs. 2-5.) The allegations in both actions are the same and the causes of action from both cases originate from these same allegations.  “California’s res judicata doctrine is based upon the primary right theory.” (Mycogen Corp., 28 Cal.4th at 904.)  “[T]he violation of a single primary right gives rise to but a single cause of action.” (Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 681.) “[T]he primary right is simply the plaintiff’s right to be free from the particular injury suffered. It must therefore be distinguished from the legal theory on which liability for that injury is premised: ‘Even where there are multiple legal theories upon which recovery might be predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for relief.’” (Id. at 681–682.)  Here, the primary right asserted in both cases relates to alleged harm caused by the allegedly wrongful sale of the Property. Any claims related to the Property and loans secured by the Property, as well as its sale and any alleged elder abuse that arose therefrom, could have been and were litigated in the prior action.  The plaintiff in the prior action could have asserted any number of claims related to the Property in the prior action.  Second, Center Street and a representative from the estate of Mrs. Sjostrand were parties to the prior action as well as the instant action. Thus, the requirement that the same parties be involved for res judicata to apply is met here.   Third and last, claim preclusion requires that a decision in the prior proceeding be final and on the merits.  (Federation of Hillside & Canyon Assns. v. City of Los Angeles (2004), 126 Cal.App.4th at 1202.)  A dismissal with prejudice is a final judgment.  (Roybal v. Univ. Ford (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1080, 1085-1086.)  Here, the court in the prior action entered judgment of dismissal with prejudice in Center Street’s favor.  (RJN, Ex. 6.)  Plaintiff was served with notice of entry of judgment on May 11, 2023 (RJN, Ex. 7), and no notice of appeal was timely filed, rendering the judgment in the prior action final.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.104(a)(1)(B) (“…a notice of appeal must be filed on or before the earliest of…60 days after the party filing the notice of appeal serves or is served by a party with a document entitled “Notice of Entry” of judgment or a filed-endorsed copy of the judgment, accompanied by proof of service…”).)  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claims.  As no amendment can change this result, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  Given this ruling, the Court declines to consider the other arguments raised by Center Street for dismissing the Complaint.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Center Street’s demurrer to the Complaint without leave to amend.   IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  December 4, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court  

   Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  MYRNA RAMOS, et al.,   Plaintiffs, v.  TRUE HOME, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24STCV11928     Hearing Date:  December 4, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   DEFENDANT PROMINENT ESCROW    SERVICES, INC.’s DEMURRER TO and    motion to strike COMPLAINT    BACKGROUND This case arises from a real estate deal between Defendant Bye Bye House, Inc. and Plaintiff Myrna Ramos, Plaintiff’s mother-in-law is Birgitta Sjostrand.  Plaintiff is the administrator of the estate of Mrs. Sjostrand.  Plaintiff claims the sale of the home was fraudulent.  (Compl. 2:3-4.)  Defendant Prominent Escrow Services, Inc.’s (“Prominent’s”) only role in the transaction was to provide escrow services.  (Compl., 2:18-19.)   Previously, Plaintiff’s husband and Mrs. Sjostrand’s son filed a complaint against Prominent and several other defendants, including Bye Bye House, Inc., Center Street Lending, and notary Julie Proctor, alleging fraud and seeking quiet title to his mother’s home.  (Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”), Ex. A.)  After Prominent demurred to the original complaint, Mr. Sjostrand was given leave to amend and filed a First Amended Complaint on or about November 3, 2022. (RJN. Ex. B.)  Prominent again demurred, and the demurrer was sustained without leave to amend. Judgment was entered in favor of Prominent on April 3, 2023. (RJN, Ex. C).   Plaintiff filed the present Complaint on May 13, 2024.  Plaintiff, who is Peter Sjostrand’s wife, alleges six causes of action against Prominent, for: (1) fraud; (2) elder abuse; (3) common law negligence; (4) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); and (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”).    This hearing is on Prominent’s demurrer to and motion to strike the Complaint.  Prominent argues that (1) Plaintiff’s fraud claim fails because Plaintiff has not plead fraud with particularity, including failing to name specific names of the persons who made the misrepresentations, their authority to speak for Proment, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote and when it was said or written; (2) Plaintiff’s claim for elder abuse fails because Plaintiff has not alleged all essential elements of the claim against Prominent; (3) Plaintiff’s claim for negligence fails because Plaintiff does not plead what duty Prominent owed to Plaintiff or how it allegedly breached that duty; (4) Plaintiff’s claim for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails because Plaintiff does not allege any breach of contract against Prominent; (5) Plaintiff’s IIED claim fails because Plaintiff groups all defendants together and there is no way for Prominent to know what Plaintiff is accusing it of; and (6) Plaintiff’s NIED claim fails because it is duplicative of Plaintiff’s negligence claim.  Prominent also moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages and purportedly false allegations that Catherine Wingenroth, a senior escrow agent at Prominent, “has absconded along with the funds.”  There was no opposition filed as of the posting of this tentative ruling.   REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Prominent seeks judicial notice of (1) the Complaint filed by Peter Sjostrand in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534; (2) the First Amended Complaint filed by Peter Sjostrand in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534; (3) Judgment of Dismissal With Prejudice as to Defendant Prominent Escrow Services, Inc., entered on April 3, 2023 in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534; (4) Defendant Bye Bye House Inc.’s Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues, filed in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534; (5) Order on Defendant Bye Bye House Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, entered May 7, 2024 in the related case, Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534.  Cal. Evid. Code § 452 permits a court to take judicial notice of records of any court of the state of California.  Further, judicial notice of such documents is mandatory under Cal. Evid. Code § 453 “if a party requests it and (a) [g]ives each adverse party sufficient notice of the request, through the pleadings or otherwise, to enable such party to prepare to meet the request; and (b) [f]urnishes the court with sufficient information to enable it to take judicial notice of the matter.”    However, while the existence of any document in a court file may be judicially noticed, the truth of the matters asserted in those documents, including the factual findings of the judge who was sitting as the trier of fact, is not entitled to judicial notice.  A court may take judicial notice that a prior order was entered, but it may not take judicial notice of the truth of factual findings made therein.  (Steed v. Department of Consumer Affairs (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 112, 121.)  Accordingly, while the Court takes judicial notice of the court records in Peter Sjostrand v. Bye Bye House, Inc., et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 22SMCV00534, it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the matters asserted therein.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5 requires that before the filing of a demurrer or motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer or motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a), 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(2), 435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(3), 435.5(a)(3).)  Prominent submits the Declaration of Tyler Lindberg which shows the parties met and conferred but does not specify whether they did so by telephone or in person.  While this fails to satisfy the meet and confer requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §§430.41 and 435.5, the Court cannot overrule a demurrer or deny a motion to strike based on an insufficient meet and confer.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§430.41(a)(4) and 435.5(a)(4).) DISCUSSION Fraud Prominent demurs to Plaintiff’s fraud claim as insufficiently plead.  The Court agrees.   A cause of action for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) misrepresentation of a material fact; (2) the defendant's knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Cicone v. URS Corp. (1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 194.) “Because fraud allegations involve a serious attack on the defendant, such allegations must be pled with particularity so that the court can weed out non-meritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer.” (Committee On Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 5 Cal. 3d 197, 216 (1983).  The particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 73.) Plaintiff alleges “[o]n or about October 2021 Defendants represented to [Mrs. Sjostrand] that the $2,100,000 sale of her home was for her benefit. That representation was false. Defendants knew it was false and that [Mrs. Sjostrand] would rely on it. [Mrs. Sjostrand] relied on that representation to sell the house. [Mrs. Sjostrand] was harmed by not receiving the benefit. [Mrs. Sjostrand’s] reliance on defendants’ representations was a substantial factor in the harm caused.”  (Compl. at 3:15-20.)  These allegations improperly group all Defendants without specifying what each Defendant said or wrote.   In addition, a fraud cause of action against a corporation must allege the specific names of the persons who made the misrepresentations or concealed material facts, their authority to speak for the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal. App. 4th 153.)  Plaintiff fails to allege the specific names of any person alleged to have made the misrepresentation on behalf of Prominent.   Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer on the fraud claim against Prominent with leave to amend.   Elder Abuse Prominent argues that Plaintiff has failed to plead the essential elements of elder abuse against it.  The Court agrees.   On a claim for elder abuse, a plaintiff must show that a defendant took, hid, appropriated, obtained, or retained the plaintiff’s property (or assisted in doing so), that the plaintiff was 65 years of age or older at the time of the incident; that the defendant took, hid, appropriated, obtained, or retained the plaintiff’s property (or assisted in doing so) for a wrongful use or with the intent to defraud or by undue influence; that the plaintiff was harmed; and that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.  (See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30.)   The Complaint fails to plead specific facts supporting these essential elements.  The Complaint alleges: “This cause of action is brought pursuant to CA Welfare & Institutions Code 15600. Defendants abusive actions, occurring in 2021, when defendants knew that plaintiff was over the age of 65 years and ill, as defined by Welfare and Institutions Code 15610.27. Thus, plaintiff is entitled to the statutory protections and remedies provided by Welfare and Institutions Code 15610.07.”  (Compl. at 4:22-26.)  These allegations are conclusory at best, as well as impossibly vague.  Plaintiff groups several defendants together (including Prominent) and does not say what Prominent actually did to allegedly cause Plaintiff harm.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for elder abuse against Prominent with leave to amend.   Negligence Prominent argues that Plaintiff’s negligence claim fails because Plaintiff improperly groups all four defendants and does not plead what duties Prominent owed to Plaintiff or that it breached that duty.  The Court agrees.   “The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are ‘(a) a legal duty to use due case; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 913, 917.)  Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action improperly groups four separate defendants together (including Prominent) and does not plead what duty any of the defendants had to plaintiff or how they allegedly breached this duty.  The Complaint alleges “Defendants in their individual actions and collectively were negligent. Their negligence cause harm to Plaintiff and was a substantial factor in the harm caused.”  (Compl. at 5:16-17.)  These allegations are entirely conclusory and vague and cannot state a cause of action against Prominent.  The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim against Prominent with leave to amend.    Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Prominent argues that Plaintiff’s breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing claim fails because Plaintiff does not allege a breach of contract.  The Court agrees for a different reason.   “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and is has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment.”  (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App. 3d 1371, 1394.)  To recover in tort for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.”  (Id. at 1395.)   Here, Plaintiff alleges “Defendants interfered with Plaintiff's rights to receive the benefit of the contracts resulting in harm to Plaintiff.”  (Compl. at 5:26-27.)  These allegations are entirely conclusory and fail to show how Prominent acted unreasonably or without proper cause.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to this claim against Prominent with leave to amend.   IIED Prominent argues that Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled the elements of a cause of action for IIED.  The Court agrees.   An IIED claim requires Plaintiff to plead the following: (1) that defendant’s conduct was extreme and outrageous; (2) that Defendant intended to cause Plaintiff emotional distress or acted in reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) that Plaintiff suffered severe and extreme emotional distress; and (4) that Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs’ emotional distress. (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.)  These elements are simply not pled in the Complaint.  Plaintiff alleges: “Defendants acted, as described above, with the actual knowledge that Birgitta was elderly and ill. Defendants acted, as described above, with the actual knowledge that they knew they had not directly communicated with Birgitta or in any way obtained her consent for the actions they took.”  (Compl. at 6:17-20.)  These allegations are entirely conclusory.  It is unclear what actions Plaintiff alleges Prominent took, much less that the actions were extreme and outrageous or that Prominent undertook them with the intent of causing Plaintiff emotional distress.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the IIED claim against Prominent with leave to amend.   NIED Prominent argues that Plaintiff’s NIED claim is duplicative of her negligence claim and should be dismissed.  The Court agrees.   In Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, our Supreme Court explained, “when damages are sought for negligently inflicted emotional distress, the tort is negligence regardless of the specific name that may be used to describe the tort, and that the elements of duty, breach of duty, causation and damages must be pleaded and proven.” (Id. at 882.)  Since Plaintiff has already alleged a cause of action for common law negligence, she may not state a separate claim for NIED.  Plaintiff may recover emotional distress damages as part of her negligence claim.  Therefore, the demurrer is sustained as to the NIED claim against Prominent without leave to amend.   Punitive Damages Because the Court sustains the demurrer to the fraud, elder abuse and IIED claims, there is no basis for Plaintiff to seek punitive damages.  In addition, Plaintiff’s allegations of punitive damages are conclusory.  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a defendant acted “with oppression, fraud and malice” toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages. (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to support a claim for punitive damages. (Id.) The Complaint contains a single paragraph that alleges generally that “Defendants acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud and malice, and plaintiff is entitled to damages pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code 15657.5 and Civil Codes Sections 3294.”  (Compl. at 5:8-10.)  This allegation does not specify what Prominent did that was allegedly done with malice, oppression or fraud, as required under Section 3294. Further, punitive damages cannot be obtained against a corporation unless (1) an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporate employer is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud; (2) an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporate employer authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which punitive damages are awarded, or (3) an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporate employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of an employee but nevertheless chose to hire him or her. (Civ. Code § 3294(b).)  “Managing agent” under Civil Code § 3294(b) means “only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment in their corporate decision making so that their decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.”  (White v. Ultratmar. Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566-67.)  Here, Plaintiff has not identified a managing agent of Prominent or how that agent authorized or ratified any wrongful conduct by Prominent.   Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to strike the punitive damages claim with leave to amend.     False Allegation Prominent also moves to strike allegations that its senior escrow agent, Ms. Wingenroth “has absconded along with the funds.”  Prominent claims this allegation is false based on the court’s factual finding in the related case, on Bye Bye House Inc.’s motion for summary judgment.  But the Court cannot take judicial notice of that factual finding.  Accordingly, as that is the only basis for Prominent’s argument that the allegation is false, the Court denies the motion to strike.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Prominent’s demurrer with 20 days’ leave to amend, except as to the NIED claim which is dismissed without leave to amend.  The Court also GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART the motion to strike with 20 days’ leave to amend.        IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  December 4, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 