  Case Number:  22SMCV01221    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   JOCELYN DONALD p/k/a JOZZY,    Plaintiff, v.  MUSIC PUBLISHING ACCELERATOR, LLC, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV01221    Hearing Date:  December 4, 2024     [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT TREEHOUSE    PUBLISHING, LLC’S DEMURRER TO    COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract and fraud case.  Plaintiff Jocelyn Donald (or “Jozzy”) is a songwriter who has written or co-written songs for such well-known artists as Timbaland, Usher, and Fergie.  Plaintiff co-wrote the remix version of “Old Town Road” by Lil Nas X and Billy Ray Cyrus which is one of the best selling singles of all time and was nominated for a Grammy.   In 2015, Plaintiff entered into a music co-publishing agreement with Defendant Music Publishing Accelerator LLC (“MPA”) in which Plaintiff granted MPA the sole right to administer her compositions, including the right to license others to exploit her songs and collect the money from those songs (the “Agreement”).  Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, MPA was required to pay Plaintiff royalties and provide her an accounting.  Plaintiff alleges MPA has provided neither.   Plaintiff and MPA subsequently entered into a termination agreement, whereby the parties agreed that the Agreement would be terminated as to all future compositions.  On the same day, Plaintiff entered into a new agreement with Sony/ATV Tunes, in which the parties agreed that all future compositions would be administered by Sony/ATV.  As a condition for allowing the termination, MPA got 25% of all advances, royalties and other sums that would otherwise be payable to Plaintiff under the Sony/ATV agreement.  The termination agreement did not impact MPA’s continuing obligation to pay royalties or provide an accounting on existing songs. This action ensued.  Plaintiff’s original complaint alleged four claims against MPA: breach of contract, accounting, fraud and unfair business practices.  On July 7, 2023, the Court granted Treehouse Publishing LLC’s motion to intervene.  Treehouse is a member, manager and secured creditor of MPA.   On September 13, 2024, the Court granted Treehouse’s motion for judgment on the pleadings and dismissed Plaintiff’s claims for fraud and violation of Bus. & Prof. Code 17200 (“UCL”) because they were barred by the economic rule.  The Court permitted Plaintiff an opportunity to amend.   Plaintiff did not replead her fraud and UCL claims.  Instead, the first amended complaint (“FAC”) asserted three claims for (1) breach of contract (against Treehouse and MPA), (2) accounting (against Treehouse and MPA), and (3) conversion (against Treehouse). This hearing is on Treehouse’s demurrer.  Treehouse argues that (1) the first cause of action for breach of contract fails because Plaintiff agreed to dismiss Treehouse; Plaintiff amended this cause of action and added Treehouse without leave of court and, additionally, the FAC fails to identify what provisions of the contract were purportedly breached or how; (2) the second cause of action for accounting fails because Plaintiff amended this cause of action and added Treehouse as a named Defendant without leave of Court, Plaintiff has not identified any relationship with Treehouse that requires an accounting, and it is duplicative of the breach of contract claim, and (3) the third cause of action for conversion fails because Plaintiff added this cause of action and added Treehouse as a defendant without leave of Court; the FAC fails to plead a specific and identifiable sum, and the FAC fails to allege any fact sufficient to identify any personal property that Plaintiff had the right to possess at the time it was purportedly converted or that Treehouse possessed and that was capable of being converted.   MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(3).)  Treehouse submits the Declaration of Carla Wirtschafter which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone.  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of § 430.41.   LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.¿ A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿ A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)¿ The term uncertain means “ambiguous and unintelligible.”¿ (Id.)¿ A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿ A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  DISCUSSION Claims Against MPA The Court takes judicial notice of Exhibit 1 to the Declaration of Larry Zerner which shows MPA is a suspended corporation.  As such, MPA cannot defend itself in this litigation, and it cannot bring a demurrer.  Accordingly, the Court declines to entertain any arguments that claims against it fail as a matter of law.   Claims Against Treehouse Plaintiff agrees that her claims against Treehouse should be dismissed for the time being because Plaintiff did not seek leave of court to add Treehouse as a defendant.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the claims against Treehouse. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART and OVERRULES IN PART Treehouse’s demurrer without leave to amend.   IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  December 4, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 