 Case Number:  24SMCV00777    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



3435 OCEAN PARK, LLC, a California limited liability
  company,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
HEATHER PALLEIKO aka Heather Sweeney, an individual and
  dba SADANA HEALTH, and DOES 1-10, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.
 


  Case No.: 
  24SMCV00777
  Hearing Date:  12/4/24
  Trial Date: 
  8/10/2026
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
  PLAINTIFF’S APPLICATION FOR RIGHT TO ATTACH ORDER AND ORDER FOR ISSUANCE OF
  WRIT OF ATTACHMENT AGAINST DEFENDANT
 



 
Background
 
This action arises from a breach of a commercial lease.
Plaintiff 3435 Ocean Park, LLC is the landlord at 3435 Ocean Park Boulevard,
Suite 110, Santa Monica, California where Defendant Heather Palleiko aka
Heather Sweeney is a tenant. Defendant was also a guarantor on the lease. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant breached the lease agreement and guaranty by failing to
make rent payments and pay utilities and other operating expenses. Plaintiff
filed the instant action alleging a single claim for breach of the lease.
 
On November 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant application
for writ of attachment. Plaintiff argues that a writ should issue because (1)
the amount at issue is fixed and readily ascertainable by resort to the lease,
and (2) Plaintiff has established the probable validity of its claims as the
evidence demonstrates there was an agreement between the parties, Plaintiff
fully performed on the lease, Defendant breached the lease, and Plaintiff
suffered resulting damages. On November 22, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.
 
Writ of Attachment Standard
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to 
this article for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
by filing an application for the 
order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 484.010.)
 
“The application shall be executed under oath and must include:
(1) a statement showing that the 
attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which
an attachment may be issued; 
(2) a statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment; (3)
a statement that the attachment 
is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is 
based; (4) a statement that the applicant has no information or
belief that the claim is discharged 
or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding
under the Bankruptcy Act (11 
U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and (5) a description of the property
to be attached under the writ of 
attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is informed and
believes that such property is 
subject to attachment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.020.)
 
“The application [for a writ of attachment] shall be supported by
an affidavit showing that the 
plaintiff on the facts presented would be entitled to a judgment
on the claim upon which the 
attachment is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.)
 
The Court shall issue a right to attach order if the Court finds
all of the following:
(1)  
The
claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be
issued.
(2)  
The
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based.
(3)  
The
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based.
(4)  
The
amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090.)
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not
that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.) In determining the probable validity of a claim
where the defendant makes an appearance, the court must consider the relative
merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a determination of
the probable outcome of the litigation.” (See Loeb & Loeb v. Beverly
Glen Music, Inc. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1120.) This procedure is
“similar to a bench trial.” (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 76,
81.)
 
At the times set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
subdivision (b), the defendant must be served with a copy of the summons and
complaint, notice of application and hearing, and the application and
supporting evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 484.040.)
 
Attachment is a drastic remedy in that it provides for the
collection of a debt by seizure in advance of trial and judgment, as security
for the eventual satisfaction of the judgment. Thus, under California law,
attachment is a purely statutory remedy, subject to strict construction. (Epstein
v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)
 
 
Analysis
 
Basis of Attachment
 
“[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim
or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or
implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily
ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of
costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010(a).) 
“An attachment may not be issued on a claim which is secured by any
interest in real property arising from agreement . . . .”  (Id.,
§ 483.010(b).)  
 
“If the action is against a defendant who is a natural
person, an attachment may be issued only on a claim which arises out of the
conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010(c).)  “An attachment may not be issued on a claim
against a defendant who is a natural person if the claim is based on the sale
or lease of property, a license to use property, the furnishing of services, or
the loan of money where the property sold or leased, or licensed for use, the
services furnished, or the money loaned was used by the defendant primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Whether a defendant guarantor is engaged in business so as
to make issuable an attachment against him is determined on a case-by-case
basis.  (Advance Transformer Co. v. Superior Court (1974) 44 Cal.App.3d 127,
143-44.)  “[I]f the sum total of the
circumstances justifies the conclusion that the guarantor occupied himself to a
substantial degree and on a continuing basis in promoting his own profit
through provision of credit or management to the primary obligor, a guarantee
executed in the course of such activity may properly be considered an
obligation arising out of the guarantor’s business.”  (Id.
at 144.)
 
Plaintiff’s application for writ of attachment is based on
an express contract, the lease agreement dated October 3, 2018 by and between Plaintiff
and Defendant (“Lease Agreement”), with Defendant as the tenant and guarantor
of the Lease for office space located at 3435 Ocean Park Boulevard, Suite 110,
Santa Monica, California 90405. (See Declaration of Val Muraoka (Muraoka Decl.),
¶ 4-5, Exh. A.) The total amount allegedly due on the Lease Agreement is
readily ascertainable and more than $500 because the Lease Agreement sets forth
amounts due in unpaid rent, electricity and operating expenses totaling
$29,677.21, excluding attorney’s fees and costs. (Muraoka Decl., ¶ 4-5, 8, Exh.
A.) There is no indication Plaintiff holds an interest in real property to
secure the amount of the claim. (Muraoka Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff has also demonstrated that its claim arises out of
Defendant’s business because Defendant executed the Lease Agreement as an
individual doing business as Sadana Health and personally guaranteed the
corporate obligations as tenant. (Muraoka Decl., ¶ 4-5, Exhs. A-B.) Under the
circumstances, the Court finds Defendant, as guarantor, occupied herself to a
substantial degree and on a continuing basis in promoting her own profit
through provision of credit and management to her business, such that Defendant
engaged in the business giving rise to Plaintiff’s claim. (Advance
Transformer Co., supra, 44 Cal.App.3d at p. 144 [finding that the
required frequency and continuity of the guarantor’s involvement in the affairs
of the primary obligor may be found where the obligation sued upon has resulted
from an extension of credit in reliance upon defendant’s continuing guarantee
or the defendant has extensively occupied himself in the management of the
primary obligor on a continuing basis and has a major stake in its success].)
 
Probable Validity of
Plaintiff’s Claim
 
This application is based on a
claim for breach of contract. To establish a claim for breach of contract, a
plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance
or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach of the contract, and (4)
damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1367.)
 
Plaintiff has submitted
declarations from Mathias D. Maciejewski, Plaintiff’s attorney, and Val Muraoka,
Plaintiff’s asset manager, showing probable validity of Plaintiff’s breach of
contract claim. First, Plaintiff shows the existence of a contract because Ms.
Muraoka submits that Defendant Heather Palleiko aka Heather Sweeney and dba
Sadana Health entered into a written Lease Agreement with Plaintiff on or about
October 3, 2018 for the purpose of leasing certain commercial office space.
(Muraoka Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Exh. A.) Second, Plaintiff performed by providing
Defendant the office space for the agreed five-year period but Defendant
vacated the premises nine months early, turning possession back to Plaintiff on
or about February 12, 2023. (Muraoka Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 9.) Third, Defendant
breached the Lease Agreement because Defendant failed to pay rent through her
five-year contract term and Plaintiff was unable to collect rent from its
replacement tenant until August 15, 2023. (Muraoka Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, Exh. A.) Fourth,
Plaintiff shows damages caused by Defendant’s breach because Plaintiff incurred
$37,514.71 in damages from unpaid rent, electricity bills and other expenses
related to Defendant’s breach. (Muraoka Decl., ¶¶ 7-8; See Declaration of
Mathias D. Maciejewski (Maciejewski Decl.), ¶ 3.) Defendant’s argument that
Plaintiff cannot show it took reasonable steps to mitigate damages pursuant to
Civil Code section 1951.2, and that Plaintiff accordingly cannot show probable
validity, is not well taken because Plaintiff submits a declaration from Ms.
Muraoka, Plaintiff’s asset manager, contradicting this assertion. Namely, the
declaration states Plaintiff took steps to make reasonably necessary repairs
before its replacement tenant could take possession. (Muraoka Decl ¶ 8.) Such
evidence suggests Plaintiff acted reasonably in making such repairs and negates
Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff failed to mitigate damages.
 
Plaintiff’s evidence is sufficient
to support all elements of a breach of contract claim against Defendant.  Plaintiff has thus established the probable
validity of its breach of contract claim in the amount of $37,514.71.
 
Purpose and Amount of
Attachment
 
The court shall issue a right to attach order if “the
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based . . . [and] the amount to be secured by the
attachment is greater than zero.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.090.)
 
Plaintiff declares that the attachment is not sought for a
purpose other than the recovery on its claim as provided for by the Lease
Agreement guaranty, and the amount to be secured is greater than zero. (Muraoka
Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
Defendant argues the amount subject
to attachment is incorrect because Defendant’s breach of the lease did not
cause Plaintiff to incur the expenses for certain repairs that Plaintiff
claims.
 
The Court carefully reviewed the
receipts submitted by Plaintiff for the alleged renovation expenses and finds they
fail to show the expenses were incurred by Plaintiff by reason of Defendant’s
default. First, the invoices associated with these renovation expenses of the
subject property are dated from October 18, 2018 through November 5, 2018, prior
to the start of Defendant’s five-year lease. (Muraoka Decl., Exh. D.) Such expenses
incurred prior to the start of Defendant’s tenancy cannot reasonably be construed
as caused by Defendant’s early termination of the Lease Agreement several years
later. These receipts, thus, fail to show such expenses were reasonably
incurred as a result of Defendant’s breach and as an expense of reletting, as
required for Plaintiff to recover such expenses from Defendant under Section
13.2 of the Lease Agreement. (Muraoka Decl., Exh. A.) Second, Plaintiff
provides no other ledger or other evidence showing these expenses were incurred
as a result of Defendant’s early termination of her lease. Accordingly, the
renovation expenses cannot, based on the evidence submitted to the Court, be
attributable to Defendant’s breach and are excluded from the amount subject to
attachment. However, the separate amounts in unpaid rent, electricity and
operating expenses totaling $19,136.58 are reasonably ascertainable because
they are supported by the lease ledger submitted by Plaintiff, attributable to
Defendant’s breach and, thus, appropriate to include in the amount subject to
attachment. (Muraoka Decl., Exh. C.)
 
Accordingly, the amount subject to
attachment includes only the $19,136.58 in expenses attributable to Defendant’s
breach plus attorney fees and costs indicated below.
 
Subject Property
 
Plaintiff requests attachment against a natural person.  
 
CCP section 487.010 provides that where the defendant is a
natural person, all of the following property is subject to attachment:
 
(1)            
Interests in real property except
leasehold estates with unexpired terms of less than one year.
(2)            
Accounts receivable, chattel paper, and
general intangibles arising out of the conduct by the defendant of a trade,
business, or profession, except any such individual claim with a principal
balance of less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150).
(3)            
Equipment.
(4)            
Farm products.
(5)            
Inventory.
(6)            
Final money judgments arising out of
the conduct by the defendant of a trade, business, or profession.
(7)            
Money on the premises where a trade,
business, or profession is conducted by the defendant and, except for the first
one thousand dollars ($1,000), money located elsewhere than on such premises
and deposit accounts, but, if the defendant has more than one deposit account
or has at least one deposit account and money located elsewhere than on the
premises where a trade, business, or profession is conducted by the defendant,
the court, upon application of the plaintiff, may order that the writ of
attachment be levied so that an aggregate amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000) in the form of such money and in such accounts remains free of levy.
(8)            
Negotiable documents of title.
(9)            
Instruments.
(10)        
Securities.
(11)        
Minerals or the like (including oil and
gas) to be extracted.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 487.010, subd. (c).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 704.010 through 704.230 provide
statutory exemptions for certain property to be exempt from enforcement of
money judgments, including: aggregate equity in motor vehicles up to $7,500
(Code Civ. Proc., § 704.010, jewelry up to $8,725 (Code Civ. Proc., § 704.040),
tools reasonably necessary to and actually used by the judgment debtor in the
exercise of the trade, business, or profession by which the judgment debtor
earns a livelihood up to $8,725 (Code Civ. Proc., § 704.060), retirement accounts
(Code Civ. Proc., § 704.115), and family support reasonably necessary for the
support of the debtor and any dependent (Code Civ. Proc., § 704.111), among
other exemptions. 
 
Plaintiff sets forth a list of property to be attached in Section
3 of the proposed order submitted with its application. (Application, Form
AT-120.) While most of the property listed is property that is subject to
attachment under Code of Civil Procedure section 487.010 subdivision (c),
Plaintiff has also included property that is not included by statute. Requested
property that is not set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 487.010
subdivision (c) includes: “any and all personal property, vehicles, boats, […]
and jewelry in the name of Heather Palleiko and/or Heather Sweeney and/or
Sadana Health.” (Application, Form AT-120.) The Court notes Defendant’s accounts
receivable are covered by statute but the other tangible personal property
listed by Plaintiff is not. (Code Civ. Proc., § 487.010,
subd. (c).) Additionally, as Defendant correctly notes in her opposition, the
following property in Defendant’s possession is subject to statutory exemption and
is not subject to attachment: (1) one iPhone Pro Max pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 704.060, (2) one 2017 Mazda CX5 up to $7,500 pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 704.010, (3) one diamond wedding engagement ring up
to $8,725, (4) Defendant’s IRA retirement account pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 704.115, and (5) family support of $1,300 pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 704.111. (See Declaration of Heather Sweeney (Sweeney
Decl.) ¶ 3.) Thus, the only property the Court finds Plaintiff may
appropriately request to be attached are those specifically set forth in Code
of Civil Procedure section 487.010 subdivision (c).
 
Attorney’s Fees and Costs
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
482.110 provides the court with discretion to include an estimated amount for
allowable attorney’s fees and costs in the amount to be secured by the
attachment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 482.110, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff requests costs in the
amount of $570.00 and attorney’s fees in the amount of $7,267.50.  (Maciejewski Decl. ¶¶ 5–11.) The declaration
from Plaintiff’s counsel setting forth the time spent and costs incurred by
counsel in representing Plaintiff in this matter supports the requested amount
of attorney’s fees and costs.
 
The Court thus includes $7,267.50
in estimated attorney’s fees and $570.00 in estimated costs and allowable
attorney’s fees in the amount to be secured by the attachment.
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s application for writ of
attachment is GRANTED in the amount of $26,974.08
 
The granting of the application for writ of attachment is
conditioned upon Plaintiff’s posting of an undertaking in the amount of
$10,000.00 and submission of a revised proposed right to attach order and order
for issuance of writ of attachment after hearing (Form AT-120). The proposed
right to attach order should only set forth property that is subject to
attachment under CCP section 487.010(c).
 
Dated: December 4, 2024
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court