  Case Number:  21STCV06759    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B





 
patricia
  kimball,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
City
  of west hollywood, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  21STCV06759
 
   Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE: 
Motion for an order bifurcating liability and damages



 
Background
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Patricia Kimball (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on May 4, 2020, she sustained injuries to her body, including her
right arm, hand, and wrist, while she was walking on a public sidewalk at or
near 525 Huntley Drive, West Hollywood, CA 90048.  Plaintiff alleges that she tripped and fell
on a portion of concrete sidewalk that was raised at least one inch above the adjacent
sidewalk slab, creating a tripping hazard.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Sheila
Kadisha as trustee for the Sheila Kadisha Trust negligently owned, maintained,
managed, and controlled the premises. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant City of West Hollywood (“City”) owned
the public property on which the dangerous condition existed.  
The complaint, filed February 19, 2021,
alleges causes of action for: (1) premises liability; and (2) general
negligence.   
On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice the complaint as to Sheila Kadisha as trustee for the Sheila
Kadisha Trust.  
B.    
Cross-Complaints 
On April 26, 2021, City filed a
cross-complaint against Sheila Kadisha as trustee for the Sheila Kadisha Trust
for: (1) apportionment of fault.  On July
29, 2021, City dismissed without prejudice its cross-complaint as to Sheila
Kadisha as trustee for the Sheila Kadisha Trust only.  
On May 27, 2021, Sheila Kadisha as trustee
for the Sheila Kadisha Trust filed a cross-complaint against City for: (1)
total equitable indemnity; (2) contribution; (3) implied indemnity; and (4)
declaratory relief.  On September 10,
2021, Sheila Kadisha as trustee for the Sheila Kadisha Trust dismissed without
prejudice the cross-complaint filed Sheila Kadisha as trustee for the Sheila
Kadisha Trust on May 27, 2021.  
C.    
Motions on Calendar 
On April 22, 2024, City filed a motion for
an order bifurcating the issues of liability and damages pursuant to CCP §§ 598
and 1048(b).  
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief.
On July 3, 2024, City filed a reply brief.

No trial date has been set. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP § 598 states
in relevant part: 
The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the
ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation
would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order,
no later than the close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial
conference is to be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date,
that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any
part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may make such an
order at any time. Where trial of the issue of liability as to all
causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof, and the
decision of the court, or the verdict of the jury upon such issue so tried is
in favor of any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, judgment in
favor of such party shall thereupon be entered and no trial of other issues in
the action as against such party shall be had unless such judgment shall be
reversed upon appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated.
(CCP
§ 598.)  
CCP § 1048(b)
states in relevant part:
The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of the state or of the United States.
(CCP § 1048(b).)  
DISCUSSION
City moves to bifurcate the issues of liability
and damages.  City argues that the issue
of liability should be tried before damages in the interest of judicial economy
and to reduce the likelihood of inflaming or misleading the jury to the prejudice
of City.  
City argues that the liability phase can
be conducted in dramatically less time than the damages phase.  It argues that the jury will have to decide
whether the 7/8 of an inch offset represents a substantial risk of injury and
therefore constitutes a dangerous condition of public property—City contends
that this is a trivial defect.  City
argues that a picture of the sidewalk uplift taken by Plaintiff’s son 30 days
after the accident shows that the sidewalk differential was less than an
inch.  (See Mot. at p.4.)  City argues that the evidence of liability
in this case is simple and includes “photographs taken very close to the time
of the incident objectively demonstrate the nature of the alleged dangerous
condition; deposition testimony from the plaintiff and her son regarding the
mechanics of the fall; a plaintiff and the defense liability expert opining as
to the size of the uplift; [and] a plaintiff and a defense liability expert
opining as to whether the City’s had a reasonable inspection program.”  (Id. at p.5.)  In contrast, City argues that damages are
much more involved as it will include the testimony of Plaintiff, her son, her
son’s partner, additional damages witnesses (housekeeper, closer friends, etc.),
her treating orthopedic surgeon (Charles Moon), her treating pain management
doctor (Laura Audell), her treating occupational therapist (Jack Dilfer), her
retained orthopedist (Dr. Enna), her retained pain management doctor (Joshua
Prager), her retained life care planner (Dr. Tolbert), and an economist.  City claims it will call an orthopedist (Dr.
Rose), a pain management doctor (Lawrence Miller), and a life care planner
(Dawn Cook).  It argues that this totals
14 to 16 damages witnesses and approximately 7 liability witnesses.  (Id.) 

In opposition, Plaintiff argues that City
has not shown that it has a high probability of prevailing on liability at
trial, bifurcation would not promote efficiency, and City has not shown that
this case is unique where liability and damages cannot be tried together.  Plaintiff argues that while City contends
that a sidewalk height differential of up to one and a half inch is considered
“trivial,” Plaintiff relies on other case law that there is no bright line rule
deeming whether a defect is trivial or a dangerous condition.  Plaintiff also points out that City’s prior
motion for summary judgment on the issue had been denied, such that questions
of fact remain for the trier of fact to determine.  
The parties each provide photographs of
the sidewalk with a measuring tape.  The
Court will not engage in a premature discussion of the facts of the case nor
make a factual determination regarding whether the sidewalk height differential
constitutes a trivial defect or a dangerous condition.  However, based on the parties’ arguments in
their respective briefs, there appears to be issues of fact regarding the
height differential, circumstances surrounding the accident, and Defendant’s
knowledge of the sidewalk prior to the subject incident.  
City has not shown how the convenience of
witnesses will be promoted by granting this motion.  For example, City has not shown whether the
witnesses and treating healthcare professionals are outside Los Angeles County
or their schedules are such that phasing the trial will promote the convenience
of witnesses.  
In addition, City has not shown in the
motion papers how it would be prejudiced if the issues were heard
together.  In the reply brief, City agues
it will be prejudiced because City anticipates Plaintiff will ask for $3.5
million from the jury and she has put forth a life care plan valued at $2.4
million.  Plaintiff states that she will
be attending trial daily such that the jury will see Plaintiff and her injury
(i.e., her right arm is in a supportive sling) and she argues that issues of
liability and damages are ordinarily presented together in these types of
personal injury cases. Moreover, even if there is some limited possibility of
prejudice, it can be ameliorated by proper instructions and motions in limine.
The possibility of prejudice is not sufficiently probable to justify the  inherent inefficiency of consolidation.   
Finally, the Court finds that bifurcation
would not necessarily promote judicial efficiency.  Again, the case seems to be straightforward
and does not present complicated issues. 
Plaintiff also argues that bifurcation would increase the time for trial
as it would require two sets of opening and closing statements, two sets of
jury instructions, two sets of deliberation, and the duplication of testimony
from witnesses (namely, Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s son Jereme Stark, and
Plaintiff’s son-in-law Jordan Baldry).  (Opp.
at pp.7-8.)  
At this time, the Court finds that
bifurcation is not necessary in this action and would instead complicate the
relatively straightforward trial that will go forward in this action.  As such, the motion to bifurcate is
denied.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant City of West Hollywood’s motion
to bifurcate the issues of liability and damages at the trial is denied.  Defendant shall provide notice of this order.
 
 
DATED: August 9, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 