 Case Number:  24NNCV01422    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
marisol holgoin pina, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
j.k. residential services,
  inc., et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV01422
 
  Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order
  RE: 
motion to quash
  service of summons and complaint



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Marisol Holguin Pina (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on May 4, 2022, she was on the subject premises, which was her
residence and an apartment complex located at 12254 Burbank Blvd., Burbank, CA
91507.  She alleges that while she was
leaving her apartment at night, she slipped and fell on an external staircase
that was hazardous, in disrepair, and dark due to the stairwell light being
out.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
J.K. Residential Services, Inc. and 12254 Burbank Blvd., LLC owned, leased, occupied,
managed, and/or controlled the premises. 

The complaint, filed May 6, 2024, alleges
causes of action for: (1) premises liability; and (2) general negligence. 
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On July 8, 2024, Defendant J.K. Residential Services, Inc. (“Defendant”)
filed a motion to quash service of the summons and complaint.  
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a non-opposition to the motion.  
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant moves to quash Plaintiff’s service of the summons and
complaint.  
            The proof of service of the summons
and complaint (filed June 6, 2024) states that Defendant was served pursuant to
CCP § 415.45 on May 31, 2024 at 11:20 a.m. by posting a copy of the documents
at a conspicuous place on the property and thereafter mailing a copy via
certified mail to all occupants on June 3, 2024.  The proof of service indicates that Defendant
was served at 2016 Riverside Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90039 and that Ritesh Desai
is the registered agent for service of process. 
Service was effectuated by Steven Phillips, a registered process
server.  
            Defendant argues that service was
not properly effectuated as this is not an unlawful detainer action.  The proof of service states that Defendant
was served by posting and mail pursuant to CCP § 415.46.  
            CCP § 415.45 states:
(a) A summons in an
action for unlawful detainer of real property may be served by posting if upon
affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is
pending that the party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served
in any manner specified in this article other than publication and that:
(1) A cause of action
exists against the party upon whom service is to be made or he is a necessary
or proper party to the action; or
(2) The party to be
served has or claims an interest in real property in this state that is subject
to the jurisdiction of the court or the relief demanded in the action consists
wholly or in part in excluding such party from any interest in such property.
(b) The court shall order
the summons to be posted on the premises in a manner most likely to give actual
notice to the party to be served and direct that a copy of the summons and of
the complaint be forthwith mailed by
certified mail to such party at his last known address.
(c) Service of summons in
this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after posting and mailing.
(d) Notwithstanding an
order for posting of the summons, a summons may be served in any other manner authorized by this article, except publication, in which
event such service shall supersede any posted summons.
(CCP § 415.45.)  CCP § 415.46 discusses the procedure for
serving a prejudgment claim of right to possession in an unlawful detainer
action.  
            This is not an action for unlawful
detainer. The complaint does not allege an unlawful detainer action, but
instead alleges causes of action for premises liability and general
negligence.  Thus, serving Defendant
pursuant to CCP §§ 415.45 and 415.46 was improper.  As such, the motion to quash service of the
summons and complaint is granted.  
Defendant also argues that Ritesh Desai, the agent for service of
process, did not personally receive the summons and complaint in person or by
mail.  Mr. Desai states in his
declaration that he was not personally served, he routinely reviews mail for
Defendant, and he has never received a copy of the summons and complaint by
mail.  (Desai Decl., ¶¶2-5.)  Jasmine Gonzalez, an employee at the 2016
Riverside Drive location, states that she was never served with the summons and
complaint, but found the documents on the front doorstep outside of the
building.  (Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶1-2.)  These declarations also support a showing
that the documents were not properly served on the agent for service of process
for Defendant.  
In the non-opposition, Plaintiff argues that it is concerned that
Defendant is evading service by refusing personal service and failing to
communicate with Plaintiff’s counsel.  If
Plaintiff’s further attempts at service are unsuccessful, such issues will be
addressed at that time.  
The motion to quash service of the summons and complaint is
granted.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant J.K. Residential Services, Inc.’s
motion to quash service of the summons and complaint is granted.           Defendant
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED: 
August 9, 2024                                           ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court