 Case Number:  23BBCV01661    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
michael
  binns-alfred aka michael d binnsalfred & gabriel alfred, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01661
 
Hearing
  Date:  August 9, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for entry of protective order to govern production of
  confidential materials 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Michael Binns-Alfred aka
Michael D Binnsalfred and Gabriel Alfred (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on April 1,
2021, they entered into a warranty contact with Defendant Ford Motor Company
(“FMC”) regarding a 2019 Ford F-150. 
Plaintiffs allege that during the express warranty period, defects and
nonconformities manifested themselves. 
Plaintiffs allege that they delivered the vehicle to an authorized FMC
repair facility, Defendant Knight Sunrise Hollywood LLC dba Sunrise Ford of
North Hollywood (“Sunrise”), but Sunrise breached its duty by failing to
properly store, prepare, and repair the subject vehicle in accordance with
industry standards.  Plaintiffs allege
that they sought a replacement vehicle or restitution, but FMC failed to
promptly make restitution or remedy the defects.  
The complaint, filed July 24, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty against FMC; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act, § 1793.2
against FMC; and (3) negligent repair against Sunrise.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 21, 2024, FMC filed a motion for
protective order applicable to the production of materials pursuant to
Plaintiffs’ request for production of documents (“RPD”) in this action.  
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief.  
On August 2, 2024, FMC filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION

            FMC moves for a protective order, arguing that
it is necessary to protect its confidential, proprietary, and trade secret
information regarding its Warranty Policy & Procedure Manual, Customer
Relationship Center (“CRC”) Policies & Procedures, and Reacquired Vehicle
(“RAV”) Policy & Procedure Manuals.  Ford
seeks to modify the model protective order at paragraphs 7, 8, and 21 as
follows: 
Specifically,
Ford seeks to modify Paragraph 7 to clarify in sub-section (b) that the term
“affiliated attorneys” mean attorneys in the same firm and that Plaintiffs’
counsel’s office personnel who have access to Ford’s confidential documents
must sign Exhibit A; to include videographers and litigation support companies
with court reporters in sub-section (d); to preclude mock jurors from accessing
Ford’s confidential documents because Ford has no ability to identify such
persons or ensure (or confirm) their compliance, as set forth in sub-section
(f); and to include non-attorneys along with experts in paragraph (g), and
confirm that Ford’s confidential documents may not be shown to competitors of
Ford. Ford also seeks to modify Paragraph 8 to prohibit the receiving party
from posting Ford’s confidential documents to any website or advertising Ford’s
documents for sale. Finally, Ford seeks to modify Paragraph 21 to require
Plaintiffs’ counsel to return all of Ford’s confidential documents at the
conclusion of the case.
(Mot.
for Protective Order at p.1.)  FMC
provides a red-lined copy and clean copy of the proposed amended protective
order as Exhibits E and F, respectively, to the declaration of Jake Moawad. 
            In support of the motion for
protective order, FMC provides the declaration of Jacob Doss, who is a Manager
in Ford’s CRC since 2012.  He states that
FMC protects its confidential information and documents from public disclosure
as they are proprietary to FMC, constitute FMC’s trade secrets and business
intelligence, and would be of value to FMC’s competitors.  (Doss Decl., ¶4.)  He states that Ford’s Warranty Policy & Procedure Manual, CRC Policies & Procedures,
and the RAV Policy & Procedure Manuals contain sensitive, confidential, and
proprietary information.  (Id.,
¶¶6-8.)  He states the CRC Policy & Procedure Manual contains
proprietary information because it reveals FMC’s process and methodology to
identify, document, assess, and resolve customer or product concerns; addresses
the specifics of how customer calls and contacts should be handled; sets forth
the process that the CRC may follow to process, document, diagnose, handle, and
resolve customer concerns; addresses the role and responsibility with the CRC
and reveals FMC’s process to address/resolve/elevate customer concerns; and
determines how FMC classifies customer concerns and how/when to elevate a
concern, repurchase a vehicle, or communicate with its customers.  (Id., ¶9.)  Mr. Doss states that the information was
developed by FMC over time and after considerable investment in its staff and
third-party vendors who operate FMC’s call center, and that disclosure of these
documents would benefit FMC’s competitors who are training their own
employees.  (Id., ¶¶9-10.)  He states that the Warranty Policy &
Procedure Manual contains confidential processes for its dealers to receive,
execute, document, and diagnose warranty and recall repairs in conformity with FMC’s
defined processes and procedures, as well as the process when submitting
warranty reimbursement requests.  (Id.,
¶11.)  He states that the document
includes proprietary discussions of allowances, costs, and reimbursements
provided by FMC to its dealers.  (Id.)  Mr. Doss states that the RAV Policy &
Procedure Manuals contain confidential processes regarding how FMC’s employees
may proceed when a decision has been made to repurchase a specific
vehicle.  (Id., ¶12.)  His declaration appears to support why a
protective order is necessary, but does not address why the specific
modification FMC seeks to make in the model protective order are necessary.  
In opposition,
Plaintiffs argue that they agreed to execute the Los Angeles Superior Court’s
model protective order, but Ford improperly seeks to enter a protective order
that deviates from the model form without good cause.  Plaintiffs also argue that FMC was served
with written discovery requests in November 2023, but did not file this motion
until June 2024.  However, Plaintiffs
also state that in an informal attempt to resolve the dispute, they have agreed
to execute the LASC model protective order. 

            Neither party disputes whether a
protective order is appropriate for this case. 
As stated in their opposition, Plaintiffs are amenable to entering a
protective order, but argue that the model protective order should not be
modified and that FMC has not established good cause for the
modifications.  The Court will address
the proposed modifications here.
·        
Paragraph 7: 
o   Subsection (b) permits attorneys of record and affiliated attorneys (and other persons)
to access/disclose confidential materials. 
FMC seeks to narrow the term “affiliated attorneys” to those in the same
firm.  Plaintiffs argue that this may
hinder their ability to disclose documents to other attorneys serving as their
co-counsel and trial counsel.  However,
co-counsel and trial attorneys would be considered Plaintiffs’ counsel of
record, such that this objection lacks merit. The addition of the language is
not prejudicial, such that the Court will allow it.  
§  FMC also seeks to add language that non-lawyer
individuals must execute a Certification Re Confidential Discovery Materials
(Exhibit A to the model protective order). 
Plaintiffs argue that requiring all hundreds of their counsel’s
non-attorney employees to sign the form would be a “logistical nightmare.”  (Opp. at p.5.)  However, protective measures to ensure that
these documents remain confidential should be taken in light of the protective
order.  It is not clear why all persons
in the law firm, apparently “hundreds” of employees, must have access to the
documents, as opposed to having the electronic documents in a
password-protected file (or other measures to protect confidentiality that may
be taken).  Thus, the Court will allow
the addition of the proposed language by FMC regarding the signing of Exhibit A
for non-lawyer individuals that have access to the documents. 
o   Subsection (d) permits court reporters from accessing confidential material, but FMC
seeks to include videographers, litigation support consultants, and vendors
retained by the parties.  Plaintiffs do
not appear to dispute this subsection. 
As such, this language will be permitted. 
o   Subsection (f) permits mock jury participants to access the documents.  FMC seeks to strike this paragraph
completely, arguing that it has no ability to identify such persons and
ensure/confirm their compliance.  The
Court agrees. The contentions can be summarized for mock jurors. They do not
need to look at the actual evidence. 
Subsection (f) will be stricken.
o   Ford’s modification of subsection (g)
regarding experts is not contested by the parties.  The Court will allow the modification.
·        
Paragraph 8: FMC seeks to add language to paragraph 8 regarding
the use of Confidential Materials, by adding subsections (a) and (b),
such that: (a) the parties may provide the Confidential Documents by electronic
means, but may not be post them on websites or document repositories other than
with the people mentioned in paragraph 7; and (b) all persons described in
paragraph 7 shall not sell, advertise, or publicize the Confidential Materials
or information therein.  This proposed
language is perhaps redundant but covers a specific instance of conduct already
prohibited by Paragraph 8. While it is, perhaps, an instance of belt and
suspenders, the Court will allow it. 
·        
Paragraph
21: FMC seeks to modify Paragraph 21 to
clarify the process for Plaintiffs’ counsel to return or destroy FMC’s
confidential documents at the conclusion of the case, and to require the return
of all confidential documents. Instead of requiring the documents to be
returned within 30 days of a written request, FMC seeks a modification such
that documents will be returned within 30 days of a settlement or termination
of the action (without the necessity of a written request).  FMC also asks that all documents disclosed to
any Qualified Person be returned, all Protected Documents be destroyed, and
such destruction be certified in writing. 
FMC seeks to strike any language allowing counsel to maintain files in
compliance with the Protective Order, all work product, the pleadings, and
deposition copies; language regarding the proper preservation of the materials;
and the Court retaining jurisdiction to review and rule on the presentation of
materials.  Plaintiffs argue that their
counsel should be able to retain their complete case files and that any
concerns FMC may have would be addressed through the protective order.  The Court will allow the modification that FMC
proposes in paragraph 21, except that FMC should make a written request. so
that Plaintiffs are aware of when the clock starts to run on their obligation
to return documents.  
Thus,
the Court grants in part and denies in part the motion for protective order as
stated in this written order. 
            No sanctions were requested.   
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s motion for
a protective order is granted in part and denied in part as specifically stated
and limited in the Court’s written order. 
The parties are ordered to cooperate in drafting the finalized version
of the protective order, sign the document, and provide a copy for the Court’s
signing. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
August 9, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    