 Case Number:  22STCV31797    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Jesus
  Siordia, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
united
  aeronautical corporation, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV31797
Related/Consolidated
  Case: 23BBCV01790 (Westchester Action)
Related
  Case: 23BBCV01696 (Zurich Action)
 
  Hearing Date: August 9, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to file first amended
  answer 
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Jesus Siordia, Irene Fombona,
James Siordia, Deisi Martinez, Fernando Avilez, Angela Savanna Gonzalez (a
minor, by and through her guardian ad litem Deisi Martinez) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) allege that on May 27, 2021, an explosion occurred at a facility
operated by National Technical Systems, Inc. (“NTS”), which is located in
Fullerton.  They allege that the
explosion caused the death of NTS employee Jesse Siordia (“Decedent”).  They allege Decedent was the son of Jesus
Siordia and Irene Fombona; the brother of James Siordia and Deisi Martinez; and
the uncle to Angela Savanna Gonzalez and Fernando Avilez.  Plaintiffs allege they are entitled to
wrongful death damages and right of survivorship damages. 
Plaintiffs allege that the location was
owned by Defendants ERSLAND Training Center Corporation (“ERSLAND”) and ETCR,
Inc. (“ETCR”).  On May 27, 2021, NTS was
providing its facility to Defendant United Aeronautical Corporation (“UAC”),
which was testing a C-130 Modular Airborne Fire Fighting System (“MAFFS
Part”).  Plaintiffs allege that UAC was
in charge of testing the MAFFS Part, while NTS supplied the power and testing
chamber, and passively monitored the test for radio emissions.  Defendants GXAerospace, Inc., Parker Hannifin
Corporation, Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc., and Norton Sales, Inc.
were all manufacturers and/or distributors of various component parts that
comprised the MAFFS part.  Defendant
Mario Nino is alleged to be the contractor for UAC employed by Defendant Triad
Systems International who was present at the explosion and in charge of setting
up the testing.  
The complaint, filed on September 28,
2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) strict products
liability; (3) strict liability for ultrahazardous activities; (4) breach of
warranties; (5) breach of contract; (6) right of survivorship; and (7) punitive
damages. 
On January 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
Amendment to Complaint naming Doe 1 as JCC California Properties, LLC (“JCC
CP”).   
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendant ETCR, Inc. 
On May 22, 2023, by Plaintiff’s oral
request, Defendant ERSLAND Training Center Corporation was dismissed without
prejudice. 
On October 17, 2023, the Court signed the
parties’ Stipulation and Order wherein, in part, Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss the
punitive damages claims against Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc.
without prejudice and dismiss the claims of Plaintiffs Deisi Martinez and James
Siordia for a waiver of costs. 
On July 9, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Tri-Tech Systems, Inc. dba Triad Systems
International’s motion for summary judgment on the complaint was granted.  The Court dismissed Tri-Tech from Plaintiffs’
complaint with prejudice. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints
On December 23,
2022, Defendant/Cross-Complainant GXAerospace, Inc. filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant UAC for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) express
indemnity; (3) implied indemnity; (4) contribution; and (5) declaratory relief.

On December 28, 2022,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant UAC filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-30 for:
(1) total equitable indemnity; (2) comparative indemnity; (3) equitable
apportionment of fault; (4) contribution; (5) declaratory relief; and (6)
express indemnity. 
On January 17, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Norton Sales, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against
Roes 1-30 for: (1) total equitable indemnity; (2) comparative indemnity; (3)
equitable apportionment of fault; (4) contribution; (5) declaratory relief; and
(6) express indemnity. 
On January 31, 2023,
Defendants/Cross-Complainants Tri-Tech Systems, Inc. dba Triad Systems
International (“TriTech”) and Mario Nino (“Nino”) filed a cross-complaint
against UAC for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) implied indemnity; (3) express
indemnity; (4) declaratory relief; and (5) contribution.
On April 3, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant JCC California Properties, LLC field a
cross-complaint against Roes 1-25 for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2)
apportionment; (3) contribution; and (4) declaratory relief: equitable
apportionment contribution and indemnification. 

On November 27, 2023, Triad System
International and Mario Nino filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1-50 for: (1)
equitable indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; (3) contribution; (4)
apportionment; and (5) express indemnity. 
C.    
Related Cases
On July 26, 2023, Zurich American
Insurance Company (“Zurich”) and Interstate Fire & Casualty Company
(“Interstate”) filed a complaint in Case No. 23BBCV01696 against UAC,
GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation, Motion & Flow Control Products, Inc.,
Norton Sales, Inc., and TriTech for: (1) negligence; (2) strict products
liability; and (3) strict liability for ultrahazardous activities.  Zurich/Interstate allege that they insured
James Campbell Company LLC, the owner of the building.  On September 13, 2023, Zurich and Interstate
dismissed without prejudice the 2nd and 3rd causes of
action against UAC only.  
On August 4, 2023, Westchester Surplus
Lines Insurance Company (“Westchester”) filed a complaint in Case No.
23BBCV01790 against UAC, GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation, Motion &
Flow Control Products, Inc., Norton Sales, Inc., TriTech, and Nino for: (1)
negligence; (2) strict products liability; (3) strict liability for
ultrahazardous activities; (4) breach of warranties; and (5) breach of
contract.  Westchester alleges that NTS
was insured by Westchester.  On September
14, 2023, Westchester dismissed without prejudice the 4th and 5th
causes of action as to Triad and Nino only. 
On September 29, 2023, TriTech and Nino
filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-50 in the 23BBCV01790 case for: (1)
equitable indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; (3) contribution; and (4)
apportionment. 
On September 13, 2023, the Westchester and
Zurich/Interstate actions were related to this action.  This action (22STCV31797) is the lead case.
On October 27, 2023, the Court
consolidated the Westchester case with this action. 
D.   
Complaint-in-Intervention
On October 12, 2023,
Plaintiff-in-Intervention NTS Technical Systems, Inc. (“NTS”) filed a
complaint-in-intervention against UAC, GXAerospace, Parker Hannifin Corporation
(“Parker”), Motion and Flow Control Products, Inc., Norton Sales, Inc., TriTech,
and Nino for: (1) negligence; and (2) strict products liability.  
E.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 8, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Defendant UAC filed a motion for leave to file the first amended
answer (“FAA”) to the complaint. 
On July 29, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. 
On August 2, 2024,
UAC filed a reply brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
CCP § 473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
            CRC
rule 3.1324 requires a motion seeking leave to amend to include a copy of the
proposed pleadings, to identify the amendments, and to be accompanied by a declaration
including the following facts:
            1) The effect of the amendment;
            2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; 
            3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered; and 
            4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.
The Court’s discretion regarding granting
leave to amend is usually exercised liberally to permit amendment of
pleadings.  (Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920, 939.)  If a motion to amend is timely made and the
granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to
refuse permission to amend.  (Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
DISCUSSION
            UAC
filed the answer to the complaint on October 20, 2023.  UAC moves to file the proposed FAA, which
would include the additional 29th and 30th affirmative
defenses.  A copy of the proposed FAA is
attached as Exhibit A to the motion papers and the declaration of defense
counsel Garry L. Montanari.  
            In support of the motion, UAC
provides the declaration of Mr. Montanari. 
Mr. Montanari states that UAC seeks to amend the answer to assert a Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 doctrine affirmative defense, which
is an exception to the peculiar-risk doctrine that shields the hirer of an
independent contractor from liability for the death or injury of an employee of
the contractor.  (Montanari Decl.,
¶5.)  UAC also seeks to assert a Witt
v. Jackson affirmative defense, such that workers’ compensation benefits be
deducted from Plaintiffs’ recovery, if any, and to allow UAC to limit the
ability of an employer, or its insurer, to obtain reimbursement out of an
injured worker’s recovery against UAC, a third party, where the employer’s own negligence
contributed to the worker’s injuries.  (Id.,
¶6.)  Mr. Montanari states that various
discovery and depositions have recently been completed.  (Id., ¶¶7-9.)  He states that the non-NTS depositions taken
in June 2024 resulted in testimony that NTS and its employees, including
Decedent, retained control over safety at the site of the incident, they were
the final authority on deciding whether testing would proceed or not, and they controlled
activity during the testing process.  (Id.,
¶9.)  Thus, he states that the facts
giving rise to the proposed amendment were recently discovered and confirmed
during depositions of NTS’s employees.  (Id.,
¶10.)  UAC argues that there is ample
time to conduct discovery prior to the November 12, 2024 jury trial date and
that Plaintiffs’ counsel has already actively participated in discovery that
disclosed facts supporting the assertion of the two defenses.  
            In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
the motion is untimely and prejudicial as to the Privette defense since
23 depositions have already been taken and Plaintiffs cannot re-open the
depositions to address the defense, take follow-up discovery, or move for
summary judgment on the defense (as the last day to move for summary judgment
would have been July 30, 2024), and the defense is inapplicable to the facts of
the case (i.e., “where UAC had
retained control over its equipment, the equipment provided by UAC was
defective, and the nature of the leak that occurred on May 26, 2021 and May 27,
2021, was concealed by Mr. Nino and Ms. Morales, all of which was admitted by
Mr. Laughlin”).  (Opp. at
p.3.)  Plaintiffs
argue that the Privette defense is inapplicable and lacks merit, presenting the law and various
photographs, text message exchanges, and deposition transcript excerpts.  (Id. at pp.3-14.)  Plaintiffs also
argue that the Witt-Jackson offset defense is not ripe since there has
been no worker’s compensation settlement and this would only apply after a
verdict in the case upon NTS being found negligent.  (Id. at p.14.) 
Plaintiffs argue that they would need to re-depose 3 of UAC’s witnesses
(Mario Nino, Mary Morales, and Joe Laughlin), 1 GX Aerospace witnesses (Mr.
Proger), and 3 NTS witnesses (Lario Sr., Chau, and Bui) to prepare themselves
for trial and the new affirmative defenses. 
(Id. at pp. 2-3.)  
With respect to
the Privette
defense, Plaintiffs essentially argue the merits of whether the Privette doctrine would
be meritorious.  However, such arguments
are based on the allegations of the complaint and various exhibits, making
Plaintiffs’ opposition more akin to a demurrer or motion for summary
adjudication.  In the reply brief, UAC
argues that it is restrained from presenting new evidence in the reply, but
contends that Plaintiffs’ opposition provides inconsistent arguments and
evidence.  These arguments regarding who
had control over Decedent and the premises (UAC or NTS), whether they were
joint participants, the condition of the parts, whether a hazardous condition
was concealed, etc. are all beyond the scope of this motion for leave to amend
the answer.  At this time, taking into
the liberal policy favoring amendments to the pleadings, the Court will allow
UAC to assert this affirmative defense in the FAA.  
As to the Witt v Jackson defense, the
Court will allow this “defense” to be asserted. 
Although there has been no verdict or worker’s compensation settlement
in this case yet, the doctrine may come into effect upon such events occurring
(if they occur).  It may be that the
defense is inapplicable; however, at this time, the Court cannot prematurely
make such a determination.  Thus, the
Court will allow this defense to be asserted in the proposed FAA.  
            Based on the moving papers, the
Court grants UAC’s motion for leave to file an amended answer.  Mr. Montanari’s declaration addresses the factors
under CRC Rule 3.1324.  In addition, the
Court recognizes the liberal policy in allowing amendment.  “[T]he court's discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings.  The policy favoring amendment is so strong
that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.”  (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant/Cross-Defendant United Aeronautical
Corporation’s motion for leave to file the first amended answer is
granted.  Defendant is ordered to
electronically file a separate copy of the first amended answer following the
hearing on this matter.
If the parties feel the need to continue
the November 12, 2024 trial date in order to conduct discovery on the
additional affirmative defenses or to file a motion for summary judgment, they
should meet and confer and file a stipulation and order with the Court or apply
ex parte for such relief.  
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
DATED: August 9, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    