 Case Number:  24NNCV01338    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
benedict
  fernandes,
et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
American HOnda MOtor Co., Inc., 
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.:  24NNCV01338
 
Trial
  Date:  August 9, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
demurrer; motion to strike
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Benedict Fernandes, Christina
Fernandes, and Lily Fernandes (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on July 10, 2021, they
purchased a new 2021 Honda Pilot.  They
allege they entered into an express written New Vehicle Limited Warranty with
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”).  (Compl., ¶9.) 
Plaintiffs allege that the subject vehicle was
equipped with a defective 9-Speed Transmission. 
(Id., ¶¶12, 56.)  They
allege that they visited a car dealership, were assisted by a salesperson, and
had reviewed Defendant’s marketing brochures and commercials regarding the
vehicle and relied on such representations and Defendant’s reputation when
purchasing the vehicle.  (Id., ¶¶57-59.)  
Plaintiffs
allege that they delivered the subject vehicle to an authorized repair facility
with complaints that the subject vehicle felt like it was going to stall while
driving and was heavy idling, that oil may be leaking due to oil marks and the
oil being low, the Bluetooth was not connecting, and the air conditioning would
drop in speed.  (Id., ¶68.)  Plaintiffs delivered the vehicle to a repair
facility again on September 20, 2021, October 4, 2021, November 1, 2021,
January 31, 2022, June 27, 2023, June 30, 2023, July 8, 2023, July 13, 2023,
September 25, 2023, and November 11, 2023 for various issues.  (Id., ¶¶61-70.)  
The complaint, filed May 2, 2024, alleges
causes of action for: (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty; (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty; and
(3) fraudulent inducement – concealment. 

B.    
Motions on Calendar 
On June 7, 2024, Defendant filed a
demurrer and motion to strike portions of the complaint.  
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
opposition briefs.
On July 5, 2024, Defendant filed reply
briefs.  
DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
             Defendant demurs to the 3rd
cause of action, arguing that it fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute
a cause of action against it.   
The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been
under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119
Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.) “As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a
concealment/suppression claim consist of (1) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity
(scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable
reliance; and (5) resulting damage. [Citations.]”  (Hoffman v. 162 North
Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186 [internal
quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
This
cause of action is a tort of deceit and the facts constituting each element must be
alleged with particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the
policy favoring liberal construction of pleadings. (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the
claim must be pleaded with particularity, the cause of action based on
misrepresentations must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)
In the 3rd cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant and its agents intentionally concealed and failed to disclose facts
relating to the transmission defect. 
(Compl., ¶100.)  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant was the only party with exclusive knowledge of the transmission
defect and that information about the defect was never made publicly
available.  (Id., ¶101.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant produced and
distributed marketing materials (brochures and manuals) to its authorized
dealerships to communicate indirectly with consumers and provide information
about Defendant’s vehicles to customers like Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶102-104.)  Plaintiffs allege that the marketing brochures
and Defendant’s agents touted the characteristics of the subject vehicle and
its 9-Speed Transmission, while not disclosing the transmission’s defects.  (Id., ¶105.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant actively
concealed information from the public, such that Plaintiff did not know about
the Transmission Defect at the time of acquisition.  (Id., ¶¶106-107.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant intended to
deceive Plaintiffs by concealing the defect, had an opportunity to disclose the
defect, and fraudulently induced Plaintiffs to purchase the subject
vehicle.  (Id., ¶¶108-110.)  They allege that they were exposed to
potential physical harm, they were harmed by purchasing the vehicle and
Defendant’s concealment, and that would not have purchased it had the true
facts of the transmission defect been disclosed prior to the sale.  (Id., ¶¶112-114.)  
            Defendant
demurs to the 3rd cause of action, arguing that the complaint does
not allege fraud with the requisite specificity, Plaintiffs have not alleged
that Defendant owed them a duty of disclosure, and the cause of action is
barred by the economic loss doctrine.  
            The
Court will address the economic loss doctrine first.  The economic loss rule
prevents the law of contract and law of tort from dissolving into one
another.  (Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  Economic losses consist of damages for
inadequate value, cost of repair, replacement of defective products or
consequent loss of profits—without any claim of personal injury or damages to
other property.  (Id.)  The rule requires a
purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless he can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.  (Id.) 
“Tort damages have been permitted in contract cases where a
breach of duty directly causes physical injury [citation]; for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts [citation]; for
wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy [citation]; or
where the contract was fraudulently induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm. [Citation.]”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543, 551–552.)
Here, Plaintiffs allege that they would
not have purchased the subject vehicle had they known the true facts about the
Transmission Defect and that they unknowingly exposed themselves to the risk of
liability, accident, and injury as a result of Defendant’s fraudulent
concealment of the Transmission Defect. (Compl., ¶¶112-113.)  Although there are allegations that Defendant
made representations touting the characteristics of the transmission in its
brochures or through its agents,[1] the
cause of action is for fraudulent inducement based on concealment.  Plaintiffs’ injury is based on fraudulent
omission/concealment and not based on an affirmative misrepresentation, such
that it is purely economic and derives from Defendant’s alleged breach of
warranty.  (See Catherine
Petersen v. FCA US LLC (C.D. Cal., July 8, 2021, No.
CV 21-1386 DSF (EX)) 2021 WL 3207960, at *5.)  
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s superior knowledge coupled with its failure to disclose the defect
to Plaintiffs establishes its intent to conceal the material information, which
is sufficient to constitute an independent tort of fraud that causes harm
beyond disappointed economic expectations. 
(Opp. at p.6.)  
However, Plaintiffs have not
alleged facts that the vehicle suffered physical damages or that Plaintiffs suffered
from a physical injury—the only damages alleged are the defective nature of the
vehicle.  As alleged in the complaint: 
112. Plaintiff(s) has been exposed numerous times to potential
personal injury, physical harm, and related liability from motor vehicle
accidents caused by the Transmission Defect and problems presented by the
Subject Vehicle as a result of AMERICAN HONDA’s fraudulent concealment in
failing to disclose the Transmission Defect to Plaintiff(s) at the time they
purchased the Subject Vehicle and each time they presented the Subject Vehicle
for repair.
113. Plaintiff(s) was harmed by purchasing the Subject Vehicle that
Plaintiff(s) would not have purchased had AMERICAN HONDA and/or its agents
disclosed the true facts about the Transmission Defect at or prior to the sale.
Plaintiff(s) also suffered diminution in the value of Plaintiff(s)’s vehicle,
out-of-pocket expenses, damages in the amount of the difference between the
value of the vehicle equipped with a defective transmission and the value of
the vehicle if it had been equipped as warranted, and reliance damages.
Plaintiff(s) also incurred expenses relating to registration, insurance, and
maintenance of the Subject Vehicle.
114. Plaintiff(s) was harmed by Defendant’s concealment of the
Transmission Defect because Plaintiff(s) was induced to acquire a vehicle that
Plaintiff(s) would not have otherwise purchased.
(Compl.,
¶¶112-114.)  As currently alleged, Plaintiffs have not alleged a breach of a tort
duty independent from Defendant’s contractual duties under the warranties.  Plaintiffs have suffered
no loss that takes this case out of the ordinary commercial venue in which the
parties specifically bargained for a commercial solution to an economic issue.  While Plaintiffs allege that Defendant had
exclusive knowledge of the defect, this in itself is not sufficient to merit
taking this out of the economic loss doctrine. 
For these reasons, the fraudulent inducement – concealment cause of action is
barred by the economic loss rule.  
As the fraud claim is barred by the
economic loss rule, the Court declines to discuss whether the fraud cause of
action was adequately pled with specific facts. 

            The demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant moves to strike the allegations for punitive damages in the
prayer for damages, arguing that the underlying cause of action for fraud is
not sufficiently alleged such that it cannot be the basis for a punitive
damages award.  
            In
light of the ruling on the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action, the
motion to strike is taken off-calendar as moot. 

CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
In light of the
ruling on the demurrer to the 3rd cause of action, the motion to
strike is taken off-calendar as moot.  
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
August 9, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


