 Case Number:  23BBCV02686    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
mariano
  meza servin jr., 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
american honda
  motor co., inc.,
  et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV02686
 
  Hearing Date: August 9, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses
 



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Mariano Meza Servin Jr
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on June 17, 2023, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contact
with Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“AHM”) regarding a 2023 Honda
Accord vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that
the warranty contract contained various warranties, including but
not limited to the bumper-to-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission
warranty, etc.  Plaintiff alleges that
the vehicle was delivered with serious defects and nonconformities to the
warranty and developed other serious defects and nonconformities including, but
not limited to, electrical, engine, emission, and suspension system
defects.  Plaintiff alleges that he
presented the vehicle for various issues in August 2023, on September 1, 2023,
on September 8, 2023, and on September 27, 2023.  
Plaintiff
alleges that he delivered the subject vehicle to Defendant Honda of North
Hollywood (“Honda NoHo”) for repairs on numerous occasions.  Plaintiff alleges that Honda NoHo had a duty
to use ordinary skill in storage, preparation, and repair of the subject
vehicle, but Honda NoHo breached its duty. 

The complaint, filed on November 14, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty against AHM; (2) violation of the Act – breach of implied
warranty against AHM; (3) violation of the Act, section 1793.2(b) against AHM; and
(4) negligent repair against Defendant Honda of North Hollywood.
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On May 24, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel AHM’s further response to Requests for Production
of Documents, set one, Nos. 1-31.  
On July 29, 2024,
AHM filed an opposition brief.  On July
30, 2024, AHM filed a separate statement in opposition to the motion.  
On August 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves
to compel AHM’s further responses to RPD. 
According to page 2 of the notice of motion, Plaintiff seeks further
responses as to Nos. 1-31, while page 3 of the notice and the conclusion of the
memorandum of points and authorities state that Plaintiff is seeking further
responses to Nos. 15, 17, and 22-31.  The
Court notes that the motion is not accompanied by a separate statement.  For future motions to compel further
responses, Plaintiff is advised to file a separate statement or a concise
outline detailing what discovery requests and objections are at issue.  A copy of Plaintiff’s RPD requests is
attached as Exhibit 3 to the motion papers. 
A copy of AHM’s objections is attached as Exhibit 4 to the motion
papers.  AHM has filed a separate
statement with its opposition papers. 
            RPD
Nos. 15, 17, and 22 relate to AHM’s policies and procedures for handling
Song-Beverly cases; Nos. 23-29 relate to AHM’s warranty policy and procedure
for handling; and Nos. 30-31 are regarding similar customer complaints.  
            RPD No. 15 seeks all documents which evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to AHM’s rules, policies, or procedures since 2017 concerning
the issuance of refunds to buyers or providing replacement vehicles to buyers
in the State of California under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  AHM objected
that the RPD was vague and overly broad, sought irrelevant information, failed
to describe with reasonable particularity the documents requested, and sought
communications between AHM, its employees, and legal counsel which was
protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
Without waiving objections, AHM stated that
it could not comply with the request and has made a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry in an effort to comply with the RPD, but it has no written policies
and/or procedures during the identified time period concerning the issuance of
refunds to buyers or providing replacement vehicles to buyers in the State of
California under the Act, and no such documents have ever existed because it
evaluates claims under the Act in good faith on a case-by-case basis.  Here, AHM’s response is code compliant as it
states that no documents have ever existed. 
(See CCP § 2031.230.)  As such,
the motion is denied as to RPD No. 15.  
            RPD
No. 17 seeks all documents which evidence, describe,
refer, or relate to AHM’s Call Center Policies and Procedures for creating a
Service Activity in response to customer complaints relating to any defects
present in their vehicle.  RPD No. 22
seeks all documents referencing, evidencing, and/or relating to any policies or
procedures followed by its Customer Relation Center to advise customers to
deliver their vehicles to its authorized repair facilities for further
diagnosis or repair instead of offering a repurchase or replacement of the
vehicle under the Act.  AHM objected to
the RPDs and responded without waiving objections that it could not comply with
the requests because it has no written policies for creating a “Service
Activity” in response to customer complaints related to defects and it has no
written policies/procedures advising customers to deliver their vehicles to
authorized Honda repair facilities for further diagnosis or repair instead of
offering a repurchase or replacement.  It
states that no such documents have ever existed.  For the same reasons as above, the motion is
denied as to RPD Nos. 17 and 22.  
RPD No. 23 seeks any document that refers or relate to AHM’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect to
how to determine whether repairs should be covered under warranty from 2017 to
the present.  RPD No. 24 seeks any
document which refers or relates to AHM’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals
provided to its authorized repair facilities with respect to whether repairs
should be covered under warranty as “goodwill” from 2017 to the present.  RPD No. 25 seeks any document
which refers or relates to AHM’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals provided
to its authorized repair facilities with respect to repeated repair visits for
similar complaints by the consumer from 2017 to the present. RPD No. 26
seeks any document which refers or relates to AHM’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on what type of
repairs require approval by AHM in order to cover the repair under warranty
from 2017 to the present.  RPD No. 27
seeks any document which refers or relates to AHM’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on the length
for test drives on certain customer complaints to be covered under warranty
from 2017 to the present.  RPD No. 28
seeks any document which refers or relates to AHM’s Warranty Policy and
Procedure Manuals provided to its authorized repair facilities on what type of
repairs will not be reimbursed by AHM as warranty repairs from 2017 to the
present.  RPD No. 29 seeks any
document which refers or relates to AHM’s Warranty Policy and Procedure Manuals
provided to its authorized repair facilities on how to handle customer concerns
that are not duplicated at the time of the repair visit from 2017 to the
present.
            AHM
objected to RPD Nos. 23-29 and responded that pursuant to a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, it has no automotive "Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual" provided to authorized Honda repair facilities and no such manual
has ever existed in its possession, custody, and control. Although it was not a
“Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual,” AHM offered to produce a copy of
various sections of its 2023 Service Operations Manual, directed to warranty
repair, subject to an appropriate protective order in response to RPD Nos.
23-26 and 28.  To Nos. 27 and 29, AHM
objected and responded without waiving objections that it
could not comply with the requests because, pursuant to a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry, AHM has no automotive “Warranty Policy and Procedure
Manual” provided to authorized Honda repair facilities, and no such manual ever
existed in its possession, custody, or control. 

it has no written policies for creating a
“Service Activity” in response to customer complaints.  Although AHM objected to the RPDs, it also
responded that no such documents existed and that it would produce a different
type of document in the spirit of cooperation. 
However, if no responsive document exists, then AHM’s responses are code
compliant.  The motion is denied as to
RPD Nos. 23-29.          
            RPD
No. 30 seeks all documents in the form of a list or compilation, of
other Customer Complaints in AHM’s electronically stored information of
database(s) that are substantially similar to complaints made by Plaintiff with
respect to the subject vehicle in other 2023 Honda Accord vehicles.  (“Substantially similar” is defined by
Plaintiff to mean similar customer complaint that would be the same nature of
the reported system, malfunction, trouble code, TSB Recommendation, dashboard
indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem, as description
listed in any warranty summary or repair order for the subject vehicle.)  AHM objected on similar grounds as above and
argued that Plaintiff is not entitled to seek unrelated complaints in other 2023
Honda Accord vehicles.  As requested, RPD
No. 30 is overbroad.  While the RPD seeks
documents regarding the 2023 Honda Accord vehicles, the RPD is not limited in
geographical location or time, and scope (i.e., specifically the electrical and
transmission defects, which should be more specifically described).  Rather, the RPD seeks documents regarding any
type of complaint that is “similar” to Plaintiff’s complaints.  As currently worded, the motion to compel
Defendant’s further response to RPD No. 30 is denied.  The parties should meet and confer about limiting
and precisely defining the specific defect at issue, such that the documents
produced relate to a specific complaint that Plaintiff made a repair facility,
and be limited (at least in the first round of discovery) to the Los Angeles
County region.   
RPD No. 31 seeks all documents that refer to, reflect, or relate to any Field
Service Action issued, or in the process of being issued, in response to
complaints experienced by Plaintiff as described in AHM’s warranty
history/summary and within the line items of the repair orders created at its
authorized repair facility.  AHM objected
to the RPD and responded without waiving objections that it is unable to comply
with the RPD because it has made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry and has
no "Field Service Actions" and no responsive documents have ever
existed in its possession, custody, or control. 
This response is code compliant to show AHM’s inability to comply based
on the nonexistence of the documents requested. 
 As such, the motion is denied as
to RPD No. 31.  
No sanctions were requested.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff Mariano Meza Servin Jr’s motion
to compel Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.’s further responses to RPD
Nos. 15, 17, and 22-31 is denied.  
Plaintiff shall provide notice of this order.

 
 
DATED: August 9,
2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court    