 Case Number:  23BBCV02407    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
EPICURUS GOURMET,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HILLARY HIRSCH, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02407
 
  Hearing Date:  August 9, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Demurrer; Motion to strike  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff Epicurus Gourmet
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that it is in the business of selling gourmet food
products and is located at 12140 Sherman Way, North Hollywood, California
91605.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Hillary Hirsch was an employee of Plaintiff from 2016 until March 17, 2023 and
was the secretary of the Board of Directors. 
Defendant Eric Gitter is alleged to have conspired with Hirsch by directing,
encouraging, ratifying, and approving Hirsch’s unlawful conduct.  
            In January 2016, Kevin Jones (president
and sole shareholder of Plaintiff) formed Plaintiff.  In March 2016, Hirsch began working to start
Plaintiff’s business as a manager and secretary for the Board of Directors, ,
such that she owed fiduciary duties and had job responsibilities to order
products, keep financial books, pay bills, etc. 
However, she was employed by Jones through his company Liquid Assets
Cellars since Plaintiff did not yet have capital.  At that time, Plaintiff was running its
business from the premises leased by Liquid Assets Cellars located at 12134
Sherman Way.  Plaintiff alleges that as a
part of her duties, Hirsch had access to Plaintiff’s Sales Order System
(“SOS”), a proprietary database with confidential trade secrets, customer
lists, and sales data.  She also had
access to confidential business passwords for bank accounts, QuickBooks
accounting, social media, payroll, and credit card processing.  
            Plaintiff alleges that in December
2016, Jones approached the landlord of Liquid Assets Cellars’ to lease another
unit for Plaintiff and notified Gitter of the terms.  Plaintiff alleges that in January 2017, Jones
entered the lease for the 12140 Sherman Way premises and in May 2017, the
premises was opened by Plaintiff for business. 

            Plaintiff alleges that Jones had
discussed with Gitter about whether Gitter was interested in investing in
Plaintiff, but Gitter never committed to any of Jones’ offered terms and
instead began loaning money to Plaintiff through Gitter’s company Chickie the
Cop Entertaining for repayment, regarding the construction of the
premises.  On February 3, 2018, Gitter
filed his own Articles of Incorporation for Epicurus Gourmet LA, LLC and
thereafter Defendants conspired to convert Plaintiff’s confidential proprietary
information.  Plaintiff alleges that in
August 2018, Hirsch opened a Wells Fargo account in Plaintiff’s name, made
herself the sole signatory, and began depositing all proceeds from Plaintiff
into the account in September 2018. 
Hirsch also allegedly changed all passwords for Plaintiff.  
            Plaintiff alleges that it pays all
local, state, and federal taxes from Jones’ personal funds and that Jones
renegotiated and extended Plaintiff’s lease at the premises.  On March 23, 2023, Hirsch was removed as
secretary and on October 10, 2023 was terminated from employment.  Upon her termination, Plaintiff demanded
Hirsch provide Jones with the passwords and access to the bank account, but
Defendants contacted Plaintiff’s vendors and customers, instructing them to
discontinue conducting business with Plaintiff. 
            The second amended complaint (“SAC”),
filed June 6, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty;
(2) conversion; (3) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; (4) unfair competition; (5) misappropriation of trade secrets; and
(6) declaratory relief.   
B.    
Motions on Calendar
On June 28, 2024, Defendants Eric Gitter
and Hillary Hirsch filed a demurrer and a motion to strike portions of the SAC.  
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed
opposition briefs.
On August 2, 2024, Defendants filed reply
briefs. 
REQUeST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of: (A) the SAC; and (B) the May 17, 2024 order re: demurrer; motion to strike.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).)  
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of pages 121 through 152 of Defendants’ opposition to
Plaintiff’s ex parte application for OSC re: Temporary Restraining Order (filed
October 20, 2023).  The request is
granted to the extent that the Court will take judicial notice that Defendants
filed an opposition brief and supporting documents, but not for the truths of
the matters asserted within the documents. 

DISCUSSION
RE DEMURRER
            Defendants Gitter and Hirsch demur
to the 3rd and 5th causes of action on the grounds that
they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute causes of action and are
uncertain.           

3rd
     cause of action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
     Advantage

The elements of
the tort of intentional interference with prospective economic advantage are: “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.”  (Korea Supply Co.
v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153.)  
In the 3rd
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Hirsch and Gitter had access
to Plaintiff’s SOS database containing current and prospective customers and
vendors and social media accounts; thereby, Defendants had access to customers’
contact information, consumer and marketing information, and vendors.  (SAC, ¶44.) 
Plaintiff alleges that after Hirsch was terminated, Defendants contacted
Plaintiff’s vendors (including Kai Gourmet, Lettieri, and A&T Ital Foods) and
specific customers from the customer list, instructing/encouraging them not to
do business with Plaintiff, and they contacted Plaintiff’s employees on October
10, 2023 and directed them not to come to work. 
(Id., ¶45.)  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants caused false and derogatory information about Plaintiff to be distributed
in emails and social media accounts.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that by engaging in such
conduct, Defendants knew that such a disruption of relationship was certain or
substantially certain to occur.  (Id.,
¶46.)  Plaintiff alleges that as a result
of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff’s economic relationships with current and
potential customers, vendors, and employees have been disrupted and/or
interfered with, and there is a reasonable probability that Plaintiff would
have continued to profit from these relationships but for Defendants’ improper
conduct.  (Id., ¶47.)  
Defendants demur
to the 3rd cause of action, arguing that Plaintiff fails to allege
facts establishing the first element regarding an economic relationship between
Plaintiff and a third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to
Plaintiff.  Defendants argue that
Plaintiff only alleges an economic relationship with “current and potential
customers, vendors, and employees.”  (Dem.
at p.5.)   (Defendants cite to paragraph 38 of the SAC
for this quote, but paragraph 38 is alleged in the 2nd cause of
action and incorporate all prior allegations.) 

In the Court’s
prior ruling on the demurrer to the FAC, the Court stated that Plaintiff had
not alleged the identity of any third-party customers, vendors, and/or
employees to satisfy the first element.  Upon amendment, Plaintiff has now alleged the
identity of several vendors, including Kai Gourmet, Lettieri, and A&T Ital
Foods.  (See SAC, ¶45.)  This is sufficient for the cause of action to
go forward.  (In the opposition brief,
Plaintiff also cites to the request for judicial notice with declarations from
5 of Plaintiff’s employees.  As stated
above, the Court will take judicial notice of the fact that these declarations
exist, but not for the truths of the matters asserted therein.)  
The demurrer to
the 3rd cause of action is overruled. 

5th
     cause of action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets 

“Under the UTSA, a
prima facie claim for misappropriation of trade secrets requires the plaintiff
to demonstrate: (1) the plaintiff owned a trade secret, (2) the defendant
acquired, disclosed, or used the plaintiff's trade secret through improper
means, and (3) the defendant's actions damaged the plaintiff.”  (Sargent Fletcher, Inc. v. Able
Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1658, 1665.)  A “trade secret” means “means information,
including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique,
or process, that: [¶] (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or
potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who
can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and [¶] (2) Is the
subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its
secrecy.”  (Civ. Code, §3426.1(d).) 
For a UTSA cause
of action, “the information
claimed to have been misappropriated be clearly identified. Accordingly, a
California trade secrets plaintiff must, prior to commencing discovery,
‘identify the trade secret with reasonable particularity.’”  (Altavion, Inc. v. Konica
Minolta Systems Laboratory, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 26,
43.)  “[U]ntil the content and nature of the claimed
secret is ascertained, it will likely be impossible to intelligibly analyze the
remaining elements that constitute the cause of action. [Citation.] The trade
secret must be described with sufficient particularity to separate it from
matters of general knowledge in the trade or of special knowledge of those
persons who are skilled in the trade, and to permit the defendant to ascertain
at least the boundaries within which the secret lies.”  (Id. at 43-44 [citations and internal
quotation marks omitted].) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
not adequately identified its purported trade secret and that it alleges in a
conclusory fashion that the customer list and information are trade
secrets.  
In the Court’s prior order on the 5th
cause of action in the FAC, the Court held that Plaintiffs had sufficiently
alleged facts regarding the customer list, but that the term “information”
remained vague.  The Court allowed
Plaintiff to either eliminate or further explain the term “information” upon
amendment.  
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that
that the SOS system was a proprietary database containing sensitive,
confidential trade secrets, including customer lists, contact information,
history and inventory of sales, other sales data, marketing data, purchasing
data, and other confidential information that required many years and
significant revenue to develop.  (SAC,
¶20.)  In the 5th cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that it is the owner of confidential proprietary
customer lists and customer information that has/had actual and/or potential
independent economic value because it was developed over years by Plaintiff and
contained information not readily available to others outside of
Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶53.)  Plaintiff alleges it took reasonable efforts
to keep the customer lists and information secret by restricting access to the
database within computers with passwords and limited access availability, such
that they constitute trade secrets.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that after Hirsch was
terminated, Defendants misappropriated the customer list and information by
causing the lists and information to be copied/moved to other storage devices,
computer programs, etc. and kept the information from Plaintiff.  (Id, ¶54.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants used the
lists to obstruct Plaintiff from conducting business and to damage Plaintiff’s
relationship with its customers by spreading false and damaging information to
its customers.  (Id.)  Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants have
used the information to create and establish a separate gourmet food business
to compete with Plaintiff.  (Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that Hirsch and Gitter have
misappropriated lists of purchase from vendors, daily transactions, sales
information, and other confidential data that assists Plaintiff in conducting a
profitable business, and that Defendants have misappropriated and used the
information to assist them in conducting and managing a competing gourmet food
business.  (Id.)  
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
alleged sufficient facts regarding a trade secret in the form of the customer
list and customer information.  Although
Defendants argue that “information” is still not adequately pled, there is
still a basis for this cause of action to go forward based on Plaintiff’s allegations
regarding the customer list (and the information contained therein).  A demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained
to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.  (Kong
v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal. App. 4th
1028, 1047.)  
The demurrer to the 5th
cause of action is overruled. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants move to strike portions of
the SAC as follows: (1)-(3) portions of paragraph 45; (4) paragraph 47 at lines
3-7; (5)-(6) the word “information” from paragraphs 53 and 54; (7)-(10)
punitive damages allegations at paragraph 37, paragraph 42 at lines 2-5.
paragraph 48 at lines 10-13, and paragraph 56 in the 1st, 2nd,
3rd, and 5th causes of action; and (11) the request for
punitive damages in the prayer for damages at paragraph 61.C.

3rd cause of action
     – Third Parties 

Defendants move to strike all references
to unidentified third parties who are not mentioned by name from the 3rd
cause of action.  
At this time, the Court declines to strike
these allegations.  Plaintiff has alleged
the names of specific vendors in the 3rd cause of action in the SAC.
While specific names of other vendors, customers, and employees are not named
in the 3rd cause of action, the claim may still go forward as there
is viable basis to do so.  Further, such
information may better be determined upon discovery of which of Plaintiff’s
relationships with specific customers, vendors, and/or employees Plaintiff
claims Defendants interfered with.  
The motion to strike these allegations in
paragraph 45 is denied.  

“Information”

Defendants move to strike allegations
referencing “information” from the 5th cause of action.  For the reasons discussed above in the
demurer, the motion to strike such allegations in paragraphs 53 and 54 is
denied.  

Punitive Damages

Defendants move to strike the allegations
for punitive damages alleged in 1st, 2nd, 3rd,
and 5th causes of action in the SAC. 

A complaint including a request for
punitive damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is
entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253,
1255.)  A claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and
allegations that a defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and
malice" toward plaintiff are insufficient legal conclusions to show that
the plaintiff is entitled to an award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Other than a recitation of the law and
Defendants’ bare argument that “Plaintiff’s SAC fails to allege sufficient
facts to meet the standard required to state a valid claim for punitive
damages” such that they should be stricken (Mot. at p.8), Defendants provide
little argument for why the punitive damages should be stricken.  It is Defendants’ burden in the motion papers
to argue their specific reasoning why the allegations should be stricken.  They have not done so in their moving papers.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that they
have included additional facts in the SAC at paragraphs 18-20 and 23-26 to allege
that Defendants had planned to conspire against Plaintiff and Jones, Gitter
told Jones that he intended to run the company and threatened to financially
ruin Jones and his family, Gitter created his own LLC to conspire with Hirsch
to convert Plaintiff’s confidential proprietary information, Hirsch opened a
Wells Fargo account representing that she was the sole owner of Plaintiff,
Hirsch refused to give Jones any of Plaintiff’s passwords, Defendants caused
Plaintiff’s financial records to be destroyed, etc.  The Court finds that there are sufficient
allegations to show that there was intentional malicious, willful, and/or
oppressive conduct, or at least despicable conduct on the part of Defendants to
warrant punitive damages.  Whether
Plaintiff can prove such allegations with clear and convincing evidence at
trial will be determined at that time.  
The motion to strike the allegations for
punitive damages is denied. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants Hillary Hirsch and Eric
Gitter’s demurrer to the SAC is overruled. 
Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.  
Defendants are
ordered to answer.   
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
August 9, 2024                                           ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 