 Case Number:  24NNCV02416    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S  MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE   Defendant moves to transfer the case from Los Angeles Superior Court to  San Bernardino Superior Court.    The  lawsuit arises out of a May 12, 2023 car accident between Plaintiff and  Defendant, which occurred on the 210 Freeway.  Plaintiff sued for negligence and negligent  entrustment.  Plaintiff is a resident of Arizona  and Defendant resides in Redlands, California.   Tentative Ruling   The  case is ordered transferred to Superior Court of California, County of San  Bernardino. Plaintiff shall pay transfer fees in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure  section 399, subdivision (a) within 30 days of notice of the Court’s ruling.   Legal Analysis   “Except as otherwise  provided in Section 396a, if an action or proceeding is commenced in a court  having jurisdiction of the subject matter thereof, other than the court  designated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under this title, the  action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court where commenced, unless the  defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs, or moves to strike, or, at  his or her option, without answering, demurring, or moving to strike and within  the time otherwise allowed to respond to the complaint, files with the clerk, a  notice of motion for an order transferring the action or proceeding to the  proper court, together with proof of service, upon the adverse party, of a copy  of those papers.  Upon the hearing of the  motion the court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was not  commenced in the proper court, order the action or proceeding transferred to  the proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 396b(a).)   “The court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases:   (a) When the court designated in the  complaint is not the proper court. (b) When there is reason to believe that  an impartial trial cannot be had therein. (c) When the convenience of witnesses  and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change…”    (Code Civ. Proc. §  397.)   Defendant brings  this motion to transfer on the grounds that the accident and Plaintiff’s  injuries occurred in San Bernardino County, so Los Angeles Superior Court is  not the proper venue. Specifically, the accident occurred on the 210 Freeway in  Redlands, California, where Defendant is also a resident.  There are no other defendants in this lawsuit.      Plaintiff filed a  notice of non-opposition, stating she does not oppose a transfer of this case  to San Bernardino Superior Court.    Accordingly,  the motion is granted.  The case is  ordered transferred to Superior Court of California, County of San Bernardino.  Plaintiff shall pay transfer fees in  accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 399, subdivision (a).   Moving  Party is to give notice.