 Case Number:  23AHCV01908    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  X MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Plaintiff’s counsel moves to be relieved as counsel.
 
This
case involves claims for legal malpractice against an attorney and his law
firm.  Attorney Michael J. Fairchild
moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff, asserting attorney-client
privilege regarding the specific facts and states that without waiving these
privileges, “the firm can no longer effectively and ethically represent the
client.” 
 
Tentative
Ruling
 
The Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff filed by Michael J. Fairchild, Esq. is
GRANTED.
 
The
Court sets a Trial Setting Conference for January 22, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department X of the Alhambra Courthouse.Attorney Fairchild is to give notice.
 
Legal Analysis
 
“The question of
granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as counsel (Code
Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)) is one which lies within the sound discretion of
the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice
in the handling of the case.’ [Citation.]”  (People v. Prince (1968) 268
Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)  The Court should also consider whether the
attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the
client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v.
Sturdivant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)
 
California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362 requires that the following be submitted in support of an
attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel pursuant Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(2): (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made
on Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial
Council Form, MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought
instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (1) (made on Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form, MC-052)); (3) a proof of
service evidencing service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and
proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the
case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil (Judicial Council Form,
MC-053)).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (d), (e).)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff, Michael J. Fairchild, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) and California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362.  A declaration on
Judicial Council Form MC-052 accompanies the motion, as required by California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, stating that “the firm can no longer effectively
and ethically represent the client.”  
 
Attorney
Fairchild has also provided a Proof of Service of the motion on Plaintiff and defense
counsel on September 10, 2024.
 
No oppositions
have been filed.
 
The Court finds
good cause to grant the request to be relieved as counsel.  Attorney Fairchild has stated he cannot state
the specific reasons for the withdrawal but has offered that he can no longer
effectively and ethically represent the Plaintiff.  Plaintiff will not be prejudiced if counsel’s
motion is granted.  There is currently no
trial date and the Court is setting a Trial Setting Conference in January 2025,
which should give Plaintiff sufficient time to engage new counsel if such is
desired. 