  Case Number:  23STCV10421    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to Bifurcate Trial and Limit Discovery
Kelly Soojin Kim vs. Jason Bin Lee, 23STCV10421
Moving Party: Plaintiff Kelly Soojin Kim

Responding Party: Defendant and Cross-Complainant
Jason Bin Lee

Background
Plaintiff Kelly Soojin Kim (Plaintiff
or Kim) filed this motion to bifurcate and limit discovery pursuant to CCP §§
128, 598, 1048(b), and 2019.020.
This lawsuit was initiated on May
9, 2023 by Plaintiff Kim.  The dispute
arises out of a business relationship to own and operate a restaurant between
Plaintiff Kim and Defendant Jason Bin Lee (Defendant or Lee).  Both parties were involved in the restaurant
business.  In March 2021 they entered
into a written agreement which serves as the main focus of their disputes.  The Agreement provides that Plaintiff would
own 51% of the shares of the restaurant corporation, B&K Enterprise, Inc.
(B&K), while Defendant would own 49% of the shares of the corporation.  Plaintiff has filed the Complaint alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud,
unfair competition, rescission of a written instrument based upon fraud,
declaratory relief and injunctive relief.  All claims relate to that March 2021 Agreement.
 Plaintiff contends that Defendant was to
provide certain consideration in order to obtain his 49% of the shares of the
corporation.  Plaintiff contends that
Defendant did not provide the consideration, and never became a shareholder.
Defendant Lee filed a Cross-Complaint
alleging causes of action for involuntary dissolution of corporation, accounting,
breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, constructive wrongful discharge, unjust enrichment
and theft by false pretense.  Many of Defendant’s
claims are dependent upon his status as an alleged shareholder in the
corporation.
Plaintiff filed this motion on the
grounds that bifurcation of trial and limiting discovery to the issue of
whether Defendant Lee has an ownership interest in Cross-Defendant B&K is
in the interest of economy and efficiency because it is a threshold issue.  Plaintiff argues that numerous claims would
become moot and irrelevant if it is determined that Defendant does not have an
ownership interest in B&K.  Further,
Plaintiff claims that once the question of the status of Defendant as a
shareholder is resolved, the case may be substantially resolved thereafter as
Plaintiff would seek to invoke Plaintiff’s right to acquire the shares of
Defendant under Corporations Code if Defendant is found to be a shareholder.  Plaintiff claims that if Lee is not a
shareholder, then Defendant has no right to seek to dissolve B&K or obtain
an accounting.  Plaintiff also asserts
that once the issue of shareholder status is resolved, it may be possible to resolve
the other issues, even if they do not hinge on Defendant’s status as a
shareholder.
Defendant claims in his opposition
that he is a shareholder because of the Agreement that was executed between the
parties that provided for him to become a 49% shareholder in B&K.  Next, Defendant argues that the shareholder
issue is only an element of several of the causes of action and is not its own
special issue or defense.  Finally,
Defendant argues that bifurcation would delay the proceedings and prejudice
Defendant.
Plaintiff repeats his arguments in
his reply.
Analysis
Bifurcation of proceedings into
phases based on separate, distinct issues is a tool often used by trial courts
to streamline litigation.  (See, e.g., Du
Jardin v. City of Oxnard (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 174; Ford v. Miller Meat
Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1196, 1199.)  Pursuant to CCP § 1048(b), the Court may
bifurcate issues or claims “in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy.”  Under CCP § 598, a party may
move the Court to order trial of any issue before trial of any other “when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby.”  The Court also retains inherent powers to
control, order, and regulate the proceedings before it. (Cottle v. Super.
Ct. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1377-78.)
A trial court has express authority
to bifurcate issues where, as is the case here, subsequent issues are dependent
upon a first issue which, when resolved, will obviate or lessen the need for
subsequent litigation because to do so prevents inefficiency from having both
issues tried at the same time.  (Regents
of Univ. of California v. Sheily (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 824, 833.)  When deciding whether to bifurcate, courts
will consider the complexity of the issues, the risk of jury confusion,
judicial economy, and whether the claims present separate and independent
issues.  (Downey S&L v. Ohio Cos.
Ins. (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1072, 1086.)
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that
it is appropriate and beneficial to bifurcate the trial of this matter and
first resolve the question of the shareholder status of Defendant Lee.  Doing so shall impact the validity of many of
the claims asserted by Defendant that are dependent upon his status as a
shareholder.  As Plaintiff notes, a
determination that Defendant Lee is not a shareholder of B&K will impact
his ability to assert claims that are dependent upon Lee having shareholder
status.  Importantly, a determination
that Defendant Lee is a shareholder will allow Plaintiff to invoke Plaintiff’s
claimed rights under the Corporations Code to require the shares held by
Defendant and preclude an involuntary dissolution of the corporation.  Additionally, the court perceives that the
resolution of this important issue may lead to the settlement of other (or all)
claims asserted in this lawsuit.
Conducting a bifurcated trial to determine
the shareholder status of Defendant can be scheduled on a rather expedited
basis, thereby assisting the parties in reaching resolution sooner, rather than
later.
With respect to request to limit
discovery, the Court recognizes that in
order to determine the shareholder status of Defendant Lee, it is necessary to
conduct discovery surrounding the conduct leading to the Agreement, the terms
of the Agreement, and the performance of the Agreement.  This discovery also implicates facts that are relevant
to the other claims.  There does appear
to be significant overlap on the evidence that would be relevant under the
various claims.  The Court does not see
that there is any meaningful way to limit the discovery given the significant
overlap between the facts that may be germane to the shareholder status of Lee
and the other claims.  Therefore the
Court shall not limit discovery to the issue of shareholder status as it would
simply lead to unnecessary discovery disputes. 
Indeed, it is probably that such a limitation might actually delay the
matter and lead to extensive discovery disputes regarding the scope of such a
limitation.  The Court desires to reduce discovery
disputes, not multiply them.
Order
Plaintiff’s motion for bifurcation
is GRANTED.
The Court shall schedule a trial in
the near term for trial of the issue of whether Defendant Lee is a shareholder
in B&K.