 Case Number:  23STCV13765    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  68 Garrett Matsunaga vs.
General Motors, LLC; 23STCV13765
MOVING PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiffs Garrett
Matsunaga
Demurrer to Complaint with Motion to Strike
I.
BACKGROUND
            This is a lemon law case in which Plaintiff
Garret Matsunaga (Plaintiff) is alleging that there are several defects with
his 2018 Chevrolet Bolt EV (the subject vehicle) that Defendant General Motors,
LLC (Defendant) has been unable to remedy. Plaintiff is also alleging that
Defendant made misrepresentations to Plaintiff regarding the features of the
vehicle and duration of the vehicle’s charge. 
            Plaintiff leased the subject vehicle
on July 6, 2018. Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that the vehicle was delivered
to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities. (Comp., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff
did not file his complaint until June 14, 2023. Defendant filed its demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First, Second, and Third Causes of Action on September 6, 2023.
These are Plaintiff’s causes of action related to fraud and misrepresentations
allegedly made by Defendant. Defendant demurs on the basis that these causes of
action are barred by the three-year statute of limitations for fraud and
because Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to maintain the causes of
action. Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s demurrer.
            Defendant has also moved to strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.
[The Court observes that since this demurrer
implicates only non-Song-Beverly claims, Plaintiff’s counsel should make
appropriate notations in counsel’s time sheets or other billing records noting
that time devoted to addressing these non-Song Beverly claims is likely to not be
entitled to recovery of attorney fees under Song-Beverly.  The Court is not making any determination on
this issue at this time, but instead is indicating that Plaintiff’s counsel’s
time records must reflect the time devoted to this separate matter so that
should it become relevant the records allow appropriate analysis.]
II. ANALYSIS 
A. The Demurrer
As a
general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the
plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
1.   
Statute
of Limitations
Defendant demurs to the First, Second, and Third
Causes of action on the basis that they are barred by the applicable statute of
limitations.
The statute of limitations for fraud claims is three
years. (CCP § 338(d).) The delayed-discovery rule tolls the applicable statute
of limitations only if a plaintiff is unable to discover his or her cause of
action with reasonable diligence, and to rely upon it, the plaintiff must plead
“facts showing that [he] was not negligent in failing to make the discovery
sooner and that [he] had no actual or presumptive knowledge of facts sufficient
to put him on inquiry.” (Hobart v. Hobart Estate Co. (1945) 26 Cal.2d
412, 437; Johnson v. Ehrgott (1934) 1 Cal.2d 136, 137.)
Plaintiff leased the subject vehicle on July 6,
2018. His complaint alleges that the “vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with
serious defects.” (Comp., ¶ 10.) This suggests that Plaintiff knew of the
defects at the time the vehicle was delivered to him and could not argue
delayed-discovery. He did not file this complaint until June 14, 2023, almost
five years after he leased the vehicle and almost two years after the
three-year statute of limitations would have run.
As Defendant points out in its reply, Plaintiff does
not address the statute of limitations argument at all in his opposition. Other
than the statement in his complaint that the vehicle was delivered with serious
defects, there is no other indication of when Plaintiff discovered the problems
with the vehicle. Plaintiff’s complaint lists numerous recalls and warnings
that were issued by Defendant regarding the subject vehicle, but does not
indicate if he discovered the defects because of these recalls.
Because the complaint as currently pled shows that
the statute of limitations has run on the First, Second, and Third Causes of
Action, Defendant’s demurrer to these causes of action is sustained with leave
to amend.
2.   
First
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Concealment and Misrepresentation, Second Cause
of Action for Negligent Misrepresentation, and Third Cause of Action for violation
of the Business & Professions Code § 17200
Defendant also demurs to these three causes of
action on the basis that they fail to state facts sufficient to establish
fraud. The Court already sustained the demurrer to these causes of action on
the statute of limitations basis, but the Court will also address the
sufficiency of the complaint for these causes of action.
California law requires that every element of a
fraud cause of action “must be alleged in the proper manner [,] and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant to understand fully the nature of the charge made.” (Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when,
where, to whom and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73, quoting Hills Trans. Co. v.
Southwest (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.
For each of the fraud causes of action, Plaintiff
just makes conclusory allegations about what Defendant knew and when it knew
it. Plaintiff does plead with the requisite specificity who at GM made the
misrepresentations to Plaintiff, when they were made, and by what means the misrepresentations
were made. Early in Plaintiff’s complaint, Plaintiff alleges that an unnamed
salesperson at Martin Chevrolet in Torrance made representations to Plaintiff
about how far the subject vehicle could go on a single charge. (Comp., ¶ 8.) That
allegation does not include any factual allegation that anyone at GM made any representation.  Martin Chevrolet is the dealer.  Plaintiff has sued the manufacturer.
In paragraph 8 of the Complaint Plaintiff includes
the following allegation:
“Once Plaintiff was satisfied
by the representations made by the salesperson and by Defendant Manufacturer
through its advertisements and publications that the Vehicle’s range on a
single charge was 238 miles, he decided to lease the Vehicle.”
This is not
sufficient to state a claim for fraud by GM. 
Indeed, Plaintiff does not identify the allegedly false “advertisement and
publications” that he is basing his claim upon.
Plaintiff alleges that he decided to lease the
subject vehicle after hearing these representations from the dealer’s
salesperson. (Comp., ¶ 8.) Nor has Plaintiff alleged that this salesperson knew
that the representations that they were making were false. 
Because Plaintiff has not pled the three fraud
causes of action with the requisite specificity, the Court also sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the three causes of action on this basis with leave to
amend.
B. Motion to Strike
Defendant has moved for the Court to strike
Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ Prayer for Relief (Prayer
for Relief, ¶ 7.)
Punitive damages are available where a Defendant is
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code § 3294.) In this case, Plaintiff
has not pled facts sufficient to constitute causes of action for fraud. Therefore,
Plaintiff cannot maintain his request for punitive damages.
Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages is granted with leave to amend.
III. ORDER
1.   
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s First,
Second, and Third Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
2.   
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend.
3.   
Plaintiff is given 20 days to amend the
complaint.