  Case Number:  23STCV05765    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  W LAW OFFICES OF
ADELA Z. ULLOA, APC V. AREG SARKISSIAN, et al.
 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE SARKISSIAN’S
VERIFIED CROSS-COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CCP §425.16; DEMURRER TO SARKISSIAN’S
VERIFIED CROSS-COMPLAINT; MOTION TERMINATING SANCTIONS AND MONETARY SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE §128.5 AND §128.7 IN THE SUM OF $7,587.90
AGAINST CROSS-COMPLAINANT SARKISSIAN AND HIS COUNSEL 
 
Date of Hearing:        February 15, 2024                                         Trial
Date:       N/A  
Department:              W                                                                    Case No:         23STCV05765 
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Law Offices of Adela Z. Ulloa, APC 
Responding
Party:     Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Areg Sarkissian and Sarkissian Real Estate Inc.

 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Law
Offices of Adela Z. Ulloa, APC posted a job for a managing attorney for their
practice, AZU. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Sarkissian responded to the job
posting and during the initial interview, misrepresented himself to be an
expert attorney in the practice area of wrongful foreclosure. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant also breached the agreement by failing to meet basic deadlines and
failure to submit legible billing. 
 
On March 28, 2023, this action was
related to Defendant’s Labor Commission Appeal action against Law Offices of
Adela Z. Ulloa, APC (LASC Case No. 21VECP00029). 
 
On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint for 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Breach of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; 3. Estoppel; 4. Fraudulent Misrepresentation; 5. Fraudulent Promise
without Intention to Perform; 6. Fraudulent Concealment; 7. Negligence; and 8.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint on
October 24, 2023 for 1. Breach of Contract; 2. Fraud; 3. Unfair Business
Practices; 4. Negligence; 5. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
6. Unpaid Wages; 7. Slander; 8. Libel; and 9. Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING
 
I.                   
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Special
Motion to Strike Sarkissian’s Verified Cross-Complaint Pursuant to CCP §425.16
is GRANTED, in part. 
II.                 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer
with Motion to Strike is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
III.               
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Motion
Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §128.5 and §128.7 in the Sum of $7,587.90 against Cross-Complainant
Sarkissian and His Counsel is DENIED.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
AZU requests this court take judicial
notice of Labor Commissioner’s Order and Ruling, case no. WC-CM645845 dated
December 8, 2020 (Exh. A) and Court’s Ruling After Uncontested Default Trial,
in underlying related Labor Board Appeal action known Los Angeles Case Number
21VECP00029 dated November 15, 2021 (Exh. B). The court GRANTS AZU’s request
for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE SARKISSIAN’S VERIFIED CROSS-COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO CCP
§425.16
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Law Offices of Adela Z. Ulloa, APC
(“AZU”) moves to strike the Verified Cross-Complaint filed by Areg Sarkissian
in its entirety or, alternatively in part, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16. AZU makes the motion on the grounds the Cross-Complaint is based
upon statements protected by the litigation privilege. 
 
On a special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, also known as an anti-SLAPP motion, moving parties have the
initial burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special
motion to strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001)
89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.) First, the court must determine whether moving
parties have made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a
protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech,
under a constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy
v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1,
5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278;
CCP § 425.16(e).) 
 
If the court finds this showing has been made, it must dismiss the
cause of action unless the plaintiff meets its burden to demonstrate a
probability of prevailing on the claim. (CCP §425.16(b)(1); Balzaga v. Fox
News Network, LLC (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1325, 1336.) This means that the
plaintiff must state a legally sufficient claim and must then present evidence
that substantiates or sustains the claim. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer
Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61; see also Wilson v. Parker, Covert
& Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821 [plaintiff “must demonstrate
that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient
prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited”].)
 
i.                   
Timeliness
 
Sarkissian argues AZU failed to follow statutory provisions
regarding the timing of the hearing on the anti-SLAPP motion, and, as such, the
motion should be denied. Specifically, AZU filed their special motion to strike
on December 20, 2023, and set the hearing date for February 15, 2024 – 57 days
after the motion was filed. 
 
Subdivision (f) of section 425.16 provides specific time deadlines
for bringing a special motion to strike. Subdivision (f) consists of these two
sentences: “The special motion may be filed within 60 days of the service of
the complaint or, in the court's discretion, at any later time upon terms it
deems proper. The motion shall be noticed for hearing not more than 30 days
after service unless the docket conditions of the court require a later
hearing.”
 
The court finds that the motion was timely filed and was set for
the earliest date that could be reserved, based on the court’s crowded
docket.  As such, it is properly
maintained nder C.C.P. 425.16 (f).  
 
 
ii.                 
Defendant’s Burden
 
An act in furtherance of a person's right to petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or California Constitution includes
“(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.” (CCP §425.16(e).)
 
In the instant matter, the conduct Sarkissian complains of are
statements made by AZU in their complaint as well as “a litany of other verbal
statements” made about Sarkissian, all of which Sarkissian contends are in
direct reflection upon Sarkissian’s abilities of working competently as an
attorney. Specifically, in Paragraph 16 of the Cross-Complaint, Sarkissian
complains of statements AZU made in their complaint in the instant action. 
 
The court agrees the conduct complained of arises from a protected
activity. In the present case, the statements were made in a judicial proceeding.
Protected activity may include “communicative conduct such as the filing,
funding, and prosecution of a civil action.” (Rusheen v.
Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1056.) 
 
In opposition, Sarkissian argues AZU’s pursuit of their first
amended complaint action triggered Sarkissian’s Cross-Complaint because had AZU
not sought their claims, Sarkissian would not have brought a cross-complaint
against AZU for slander and libel. Again, the allegations clearly relate to
statements made in a judicial proceeding. 
The court notes, however, AZU has not demonstrated the entire complaint
arises out of protected activity – only the defamation claims and allegations
in the complaint relating to the statements made in AZU’s complaint and
judicial proceedings. 
 
The burden now shifts to the Plaintiff to establish a likelihood
of prevailing on the libel and slander causes of action as to those specific
allegations.
 
iii.               
Plaintiff’s Burden 
 
On the second component of the analysis, courts employ a
“summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to
the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether
the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein,
LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) In other words, the court does not
assess credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance
of the evidence standard.  The court
accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only
establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as
a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th
at 291.) 
 
AZU claims Sarkissian cannot meet the second prong because the
claims are barred by the litigation privilege (Civil Code § 47). The court
agrees. “The litigation privilege is also relevant to the second step in the
anti-SLAPP analysis in that it may present a substantive defense a plaintiff
must overcome to demonstrate a probability of prevailing.” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
323.) The litigation privilege applies “to any communication (1) made in
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants
authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that
have some connection or logical relation to the action.” (Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212.) Because the
gravamen of Sarkissian’s seventh and eighth causes of action is based on AZU
filing their complaint, Sarkissian’s defamation claims are absolutely
privileged as a matter of law.  Even if
the litigation privilege were not found, Sarkissian has not shown a probability
on the merits. Sarkissian argues real estate law is his primary area of
employment and therefore, these allegations were meant to hurt Sarkissian and
are not true. Sarkissian provides no other competent evidence. The evidentiary
showing by the plaintiff must be made by competent and admissible evidence. (Morrow
v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1444;
see also Evans v. Unkow (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1497-98.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, AZU’s Special Motion to Strike is GRANTED.

 
iv.               
Attorney Fees 
 
“[A] party who partially prevails on an
anti-SLAPP motion must generally be considered a prevailing party unless the
results of the motion were so insignificant that the party did not achieve any
practical benefit from bringing the motion. The determination whether a party
prevailed on an anti-SLAPP motion lies within the broad discretion of a trial
court.” (Mann v. Quality Old Time Service, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th
328, 340.) 
 
AZU may file a separate motion for
attorney fees. 
 
II.                 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
AZU demurs to the Cross-Complaint and
each cause of action therein on the grounds the Cross-Complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to establish liability against AZU and is uncertain. AZU also
moves to strike the Cross-Complaint. 
 
Statute of Limitations
 
AZU also argues all actions are barred
by the statute of limitations on the grounds any actionable conduct took place
at the end of October 2018, which is approximately 5 years ago. As 4 years is
the longest statute of limitations for any action, and even applying the Covid
6-month extension, it is obvious that all of Sarkissian’s actions are
time-barred.
 
In opposition, Sarkissian argues AZU
fails to address why she believes each cause of action to be barred. For
instance, the fraud cause of action has a three-year statute of limitations
period, but beginning only when the victim realizes that fraud has been
perpetrated on them. The court finds the statute of limitations has run on each
cause of action. Sarkissian claims AZU does not discuss when Sarkissian could
have discovered the fraud, but by the allegations in the complaint, it is clear
the latest Sarkissian discovered the fraud was December 2018 – Sarkissian did
not file his Cross-Complaint until October 2023 – five years after the fraud
was discovered. An action founded upon a written contract, such as breach of
written contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
must be brought within four years of the alleged breach. (CCP §337.) The
statute of limitations for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action is four
years, unless the gravamen of the claim is actual or constructive fraud, in
which case the statute of limitations is three years. (See American Master
Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451,
1479.)  Moreover, the statute of limitations for fraud is three
years, unfair business practices is four years, and negligence is two
years.  Even including the COVID-19
extension, they are untimely. The six month period created by Rule 9 would
bring the four year statute of limitations to June 2023. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  The Motion to strike is moot.   
 
III.               
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TERMINATING SANCTIONS AND MONETARY SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE §128.5 AND §128.7 IN THE SUM OF $7,587.90 AGAINST CROSS-COMPLAINANT
SARKISSIAN AND HIS COUNSEL
 
AZU moves for an order requesting
terminating sanctions and monetary sanctions against Cross-Complainant Sarkissian
and his attorney, James H. Clark, jointly and severally, under Code of Civil
Procedure §128.5 and §128.7 in the total sum of $7,587.90 on the grounds the
Cross-Complaint by Sarkissian is frivolous. AZU contends the Cross-Complaint is
duplicative and barred by the litigation privilege and moreover, when comparing
the Labor Board’s Order to Sarkissian’s Cross-Complaint, it is blatant that
Sarkissian is perjuring himself. 
 
Under §128.7, a court may impose
sanctions for filing a pleading, petition, motion, or similar paper if filed
for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally, or
factually.  (Guillemin v. Stein (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 156,
168.)  A claim is factually frivolous if “not well grounded in fact” and
legally frivolous if “not warranted by existing law or a good faith  argument
for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.”  (Peake
v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 442.)  A claim is objectively
unreasonable if “any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.”  (Id.)   Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5 also provides for the recovery of sanctions on actions
“made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.” (CCP § 128.5(a).)
 
With regard to the first step in a
motion for sanctions, AZU’s motion’s proof of service indicates she complied
with the safe harbor waiting period requirement by serving the instant motion
on Sarkissian on November 13, 2023, during which time Sarkissian did not
withdraw the Cross-Complaint.  AZU then
filed the instant motion with the court on December 12, 2023.
 
However, the court finds AZU has failed
to show Sarkissian acted in bad faith or that the Cross-Complaint was filed for
an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally or
factually.   AZU may seek legal fees
incurred in bringing the special motion to strike.   
 