  Case Number:  23TRCV00088    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Monday, October 28, 2024
Department M    Calendar No. 2  



 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Insurance
Auto Auctions, Inc. v. Alberto Castellanos, et al.    
23TRCV00088
1.     
Insurance Auto
Auctions, Inc.’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
2.     
Insurance Auto
Auctions, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc.’s Demurrer to First
Amended Cross-Complaint is overruled. 
 
Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc.’s Motion to Strike
Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint is denied.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on November 11, 2023.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff entered into a contract with
Defendants. Defendants were to provide towing services. Instead, Defendants
wrongfully took possession of 23 vehicles which were to be transferred to
Plaintiff's storage facilities. Instead of delivering the vehicles, Defendants
held the vehicles at a then undisclosed location. 
 
On March 28, 2023, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint.
On October 13, 2023, Defendants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainants
allege that they were not paid for their towing services and that
Cross-Defendant engaged in self-help and wrongful actions that caused damage to
their company. The FACC states the following causes of action: (1) Breach of
Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3)
Common Count; (4) Intentional Inference with Prospective Economic Advantage.  
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Cross-Defendant set forth meet and
confer declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.
(Decls., Robyn M. Weiss, ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Cross-Defendant demurs
to the second cause for failure to state sufficient facts to state a cause of
action and uncertainty. CCP § 430.10(e)(f).
 
Second Cause of
Action for Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled. Cross-Complainant states
sufficient to state a cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.

 
“Every contract
contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing that no
party to the contract will do anything that would deprive another party of the
benefits of the contract. The implied covenant protects the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties based on their mutual promises. The
scope of conduct prohibited by the implied covenant depends on the purposes and
express terms of the contract. Although breach of the implied covenant often is
pleaded as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a
breach of contract.” Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885
(internal citations omitted). A breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing does not give rise to a cause of action separate from a cause of action
for breach of the contract containing the covenant. Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 327 (stating that “where breach of an actual term is alleged, a
separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is superfluous.”)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a
mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract
cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim
is actually stated.” Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.
 
Cross-Complainants
allege sufficient facts demonstrating Cross-Defendant’s actions in attempting
to deprive Cross-Complainant of the benefit of the agreement that go beyond
mere allegations of breach of the agreement. (FACC, ¶¶ 9-12.)  These factual allegations, which include
allegations that Cross-Defendant failed to provide the written billing terms,
threw away Cross-Complainants’ invoices, and reported the vehicles as stolen, were
incorporated into the second cause of action. (Id. at ¶ 13.)  Cross-Complainants allege sufficient facts to
state a cause of action, and the cause of action is sufficiently certain. “Demurrers for uncertainty under
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) (sic)
are disfavored. A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.
A demurrer for uncertainty should be overruled when the
facts as to which the complaint is uncertain are presumptively within the
defendant's knowledge.” Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
811, 822 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
The demurrer to the second
cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike the
following: “1. Page 12, Line 20,
"…fraudulent, and libelous…" 2. Page 14, Line 5, "…but also with
malice, fraud and oppression…" 3. Page 14, Lines 11-13, "thus
entitling ALBERTO'S to an award of punitive and exemplary damages against said
Cross-Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof." 4.
Page 15, Lines 3-4, "For punitive and exemplary damages in a sum
appropriate to punish IAA and ROES 10 to 32, Inclusive and to deter similar
conduct in the future".” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 2-8.)
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Civ. Code, § 3294(c) states:
“As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person's rights.
(3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
The motion to strike is denied. The Court
notes that Cross-Defendant did not demur to the fourth cause of action for
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage. The facts alleged
in that cause of action may demonstrate despicable conduct on the part of
Cross-Defendant that was conducted with willful and conscious disregard for the
rights of Cross-Complainants. 
 
To state a claim for punitive damages, Cross-Complainants
must allege specific facts rather than conclusions that Cross-Defendant’s
conduct constitutes oppression, fraud, or malice. Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872. Here, Cross-Complainants stated sufficient
specific facts to allege that Cross-Defendant acted willfully, maliciously,
intentionally, and/or recklessly to support Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive
damages. (FACC, ¶¶ 12, 21-24). The fact that Cross-Complainants did not allege
causes of action for fraud or libel does not render the mere references to such
language susceptible to a motion to strike. The language could be interpreted
to merely support Cross-Complainants’ contention that Cross-Defendant acted
with malice.
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is denied.
 
Cross-Defendant is ordered to file and
serve an Answer within 10 days of this date.
 
Cross-Complainants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.