 Case Number:  23TRCV00354    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
              Monday, October 28, 2024
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar
No. 3
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Maria Fernanda Bueno Roldan, et al. v.
Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV00354
1.      Swift
Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order
2.     
Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc.’s
Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena to Target Corporation
3.      Swift
Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc., et al.’s Motion to Quash Deposition
Subpoena to Kmart Corporation   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona,
Inc.’s Motion for Protective Order is denied.
 
Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc., et al.’s
Motions to Quash Deposition Subpoenas are granted.  
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on February 8, 2023 and
the First Amended Complaint on May 30, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following
facts. On January 11, 2023, Plaintiff Maria
Fernanda Bueno Roldan was working at Target in the loading area when defendant
Kevin Sullivan, acting in the course and scope of employment for Swift
Transportation, negligently caused a food pallet to fall onto Plaintiff.
Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Negligence; 2. Loss of
Consortium.
 
Motion for Protective Order
 
The Court is authorized to
limit discovery through a protective order. 
The order may be granted on the motion of any party or other person
affected by the discovery sought.  CCP §§
2017.020(a), 2019.020(b), 2019.030(a).  A
protective order may be obtained to limit the frequency or extent of use of any
discovery method on any of the following grounds:  (1) 
“The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative …;  (2) 
“(The information) is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome or less expensive; 
(3)  “The selected method of
discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of
the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake
in the litigation.”  CCP §
2019.030(a)(1)-(2). 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420
states:
“(a) Before, during, or
after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good
cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party,
deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order
may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:
(1) That the deposition not
be taken at all.
(2) That the deposition be
taken at a different time.
(3) That a video recording
of the deposition testimony of a treating or consulting physician or of any
expert witness, intended for possible use at trial under subdivision (d) of
Section 2025.620, be postponed until the moving party has had an adequate opportunity
to prepare, by discovery deposition of the deponent, or other means, for
cross-examination.
(4) That the deposition be
taken at a place other than that specified in the deposition notice, if it is
within a distance permitted by Sections 2025.250 and 2025.260.
(5) That the deposition be
taken only on certain specified terms and conditions.
(6) That the deponent's
testimony be taken by written, instead of oral, examination.
(7) That the method of
discovery be interrogatories to a party instead of an oral deposition.
(8) That the testimony be
recorded in a manner different from that specified in the deposition notice.
(9) That certain matters
not be inquired into.
(10) That the scope of the
examination be limited to certain matters.
(11) That all or certain of
the writings or tangible things designated in the deposition notice not be
produced, inspected, copied, tested, or sampled, or that conditions be set for
the production of electronically stored information designated in the deposition
notice.
(12) That designated
persons, other than the parties to the action and their officers and counsel,
be excluded from attending the deposition.
(13) That a trade secret or
other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be
disclosed or be disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified way.
(14) That the parties
simultaneously file specified documents enclosed in sealed envelopes to be
opened as directed by the court.
(15) That the deposition be
sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court.
(16) That examination of
the deponent be terminated. If an order terminates the examination, the
deposition shall not thereafter be resumed, except on order of the court.”
 
Meet and
Confer
 
Defendant set forth a meet
and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2025.420(a).  (Declaration, Steven D. Stutsman, ¶¶ 10-12.)
 
Motion for
Protective Order
 
Defendant moves for a
protective order to prevent the depositions of Garrison Morral, William Gray,
and “Driver Mentor” pursuant to CCP § 2025.420. In the alternative, Defendant
moves to limit the scope of their deposition testimony and document production.
Defendant moves on the grounds that there is good cause to grant the protective
order. Defendant contends that the three depositions seek inquiry into matters
that are irrelevant. Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148.
 
Defendant’s motion for
protective order is denied. Defendant fails to establish good cause for the
granting of the protective order. Diaz v. Carcamo (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148 stands for the
proposition that, in an action alleging both negligence and negligent
entrustment of a vehicle, an employer’s concession that it was vicariously
liable renders evidence of negligent hiring and/or retention of the employee
irrelevant because the plaintiff can no longer pursue negligent entrustment. 
 
Here, in the instant
action, however, Plaintiff has not alleged both negligence and negligent entrustment.
Instead, Plaintiff is only pursuing a negligence theory. However, evidence
concerning Defendant’s training and supervision have been rendered potentially
relevant based on Plaintiff’s allegations supporting the punitive damages claim
including contentions that Defendant’s drivers were encouraged to assist in
operating a pallet jack. Thus, facts regarding the manner in which Defendant’s
employees were trained to perform such assistance and Defendant’s driver’s
manual may be relevant to support Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant acted
with conscious disregard for the safety of others.
 
In addition, it does not
appear that the additional depositions are unduly cumulative. Defendant
previously produced four employees for deposition, but it does not appear that
these employees were directly involved in the process of supervising Sullivan,
and the testimony rendered by them was quite general regarding the specific
issue identified above for purposes of claiming punitive damages. 
 
Thus, Defendant’s Motion
for Protective Order is denied. Plaintiff is not prevented from taking or
limited in the scope of the depositions of Garrison Morral, William Gray, and “Driver
Mentor” in this action and Plaintiff is not prevented from seeking documents in
connection with the notices of depositions. 
 
Motion to Quash Third Party Subpoenas Duces Tecum
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3(g) states: “Any consumer
whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party
to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to
the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify
the subpoena duces tecum.” 
 
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1:  “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(a)(5) states:
“Except as provided in (b), any motion involving the
content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be
accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate
statement include a motion: (5) To compel or to quash the production of
documents or tangible things at a deposition.” 
 
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3,1345(b) states:
“A separate statement is not required under the
following circumstances:
(1) When no response has been provided to the request
for discovery; or
(2) When a court has allowed the moving party to
submit--in place of a separate statement--a concise outline of the discovery
request and each response in dispute.”
 
Pursuant to CCP § 1987.1, Defendant moves for orders
to quash the deposition subpoenas for business records issued by Plaintiff to
Target Corporation and Kmart Corporation for the employment records of Kevin
Sullivan from his prior employment with these non-parties. 
 
The motions are made on the grounds that Plaintiff seeks
private past employment information that has no relationship to the causes of
action in this case, that the subpoenas are not designed to lead to the
discovery of relevant evidence, and that the subpoenas unduly intrude into Kevin
Sullivan’s right of privacy.  
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians
a right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, §1.) Protection of informational
privacy is the provision’s central concern.” 
Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552. “[W]hen a
discovery request seeks information implicating the constitutional right of
privacy, to order discovery simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil
Procedure section 2017.010 test for relevance has been met is an abuse of
discretion.”  Williams v. Superior
Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556 (citations omitted).
 
In Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37, the California Supreme Court “established a
framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.  The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. . . . . The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations.” Williams
v. Superior Court, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552 (citations omitted). In Hill,
the Court “explained that not ‘every assertion of a privacy interest under
article I, section 1 must be overcome by a “compelling interest.” . . . . A
‘“compelling interest”’ is still required to justify ‘an obvious invasion of an
interest fundamental to personal autonomy.’” 
Id. at 556.
 
Disclosure depends upon balancing the need for
discovery against the need for confidentiality. 
“Courts must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies, as Hill requires.”  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.  
 
Confidential personnel files at a person's place of
employment are within a zone of privacy. See,
Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Jr. Univ. v. Superior Court (1981) 119
Cal.App.3d 516, 528-30 disapproved on other grounds in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.  “Courts must instead place the burden on the
party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness
of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies, as Hill requires.”  Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.  
 
Upon balancing the need for the discovery against the
privacy interest involved, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate that the need for the discovery outweighs the privacy interest of
Defendant Sullivan. The subpoenas seek a broad range of documents which would
essentially consist of the entirety of the personnel records of Defendant
Sullivan from two of his past employers who are not parties to this action. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas “are reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence of (a) industry
custom and practice related to loading dock safety; and (b) specifically what
knowledge, education and training Defendant Sullivan had regarding loading dock
safety.” (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement, page 7, lines 4-7.)  Information regarding industry custom and
practice can easily be obtained from other sources including depositions of
Defendant’s agents as well as inquiry by Plaintiff to experts in the industry.
Information as to knowledge, education, and training of Sullivan, in the past,
can be obtained from Sullivan directly through deposition or from other
discovery methods. The Court is concerned that Plaintiff may be attempting to obtain
information regarding Sullivan’s prior employment that may be directed more to
prior incidents when he was not a Swift employee or perhaps character evidence.
In such a scenario, the discovery sought would appear to resemble an attempt to
fish for evidence into matters that are not directly implicated under the facts
of this action. 
 
Defendant’s motions to quash the deposition subpoenas
are granted.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.