  Case Number:  21STCV17214    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
TERPEN,
  INC., et al.
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
ARCTURIAN
  LIGHT, LLC, et al.
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  21STCV17214 
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  May 6, 2021
Trial
  Date:  May 19, 2024



 
Hearing
date:              September
10, 2024 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiffs
Terpen Inc., Jairo D. Arrieta, Joel Arrieta and Juan                                               Carlos
Diaz
Responding
Party:      Defendants
Memory Buss, Arcturian Light, LLC and Pleiadian                                           Light,
LLC
Motion
for Monetary, Evidentiary, Issue and Terminating Sanctions   
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
Background
            Plaintiff
Terpen Inc. invested approximately $1,193,548.56 in cash contribution and
approximately $275,269.45 in non-cash contributions in a partnership between
limited liability companies formed, owned, operated and controlled by Defendant
Memory Buss.  Defendant Buss formed
Defendant Arcturian Light LLC and Pleiadian Light LLC (collectively, “The
LLCs.”)  The purpose of the LLCs would be
to own and use licenses for the legal sales and operation of recreational
adult-use Cannabis in Los Angeles and California.  Plaintiff Terpen, Inc. is owned by Plaintiffs
Joel Arrieta, Jairo D. Arrieta and Juan Carlos Diaz.  The parties memorialized their agreement in a
Partnership Agreement dated April 22, 2019. 

            Plaintiffs
allege Terpen, Inc. invested in Buss’s partnership based on various
misrepresentations that Buss made to them, including a promise that Terpen,
Inc. would have an ownership interest in the assets of the partnership.  Plaintiffs allege neither they nor the
Partnership have received any membership or ownership interests in the LLCs,
nor have they received any proceeds from sale of the Cannabis products.  
            In
addition, the individual Plaintiffs performed substantial work for Defendants
for which they were never paid. 
Plaintiffs contend the individual Plaintiffs are also owed unpaid wages
and penalties.  
            On
May 6, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Buss and the
LLCs.  Plaintiffs allege (1) securities
fraud under state law; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) intentional
misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5) conversion; (6) civil
conspiracy; (7) breach of written contract; (8) breach of oral contract; (9)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (10) rescission per
Civil Code §1689(b); (11) to compel an inspection of business records; (12) for
an accounting; (13) for buyout or dissolution of partnership; (14) promissory
estoppel: (15) failure to pay minimum wage; (16) failure to pay overtime; (17)
failure to pay all wages upon termination; (18) failure to provide itemized
wage statements; (19) false representations regarding the terms and conditions
of employment inducing employee to relocate; (20) declaratory relief; and (21)
violation of Labor Code §210.  
            On
October 22, 2022, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration.  On March 15, 2023, ADR
terminated the arbitration after Defendant Pleiadian Light, LLC failed to pay an
invoice in the amount of $1,750.
Legal
Standard
            Discovery
sanctions are not intended to punish but to accomplish discovery.  (Newland v. Supr. Ct. (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 608, 613.)  Discovery
sanctions are not intended to punish but to accomplish discovery.  (Newland, supra, 40 Cal.App.4th
at 613.)  CCP §2023.010 does not require
that any heightened showing be made in connection with a request for
terminating sanctions.  The Court is also
not required to make any findings or detail with particularity the basis for
its decision to impose sanctions.  (Ghanooni
v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261.)  The imposition of sanctions detailed in CCP
§2023.030(b) for disobedience to Court's orders lies entirely within the
court's sound discretion and is only subject to reversal for manifest abuse
exceeding the bounds of reason.  (Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1244.) Thus, in reviewing a trial
court’s imposition of terminating sanctions, the question is not whether lesser
sanctions could have been imposed, but whether imposition of terminating
sanctions constitutes an abuse of discretion. 
(Collisson & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611,
1620 (affirming terminating sanctions where defendant repeatedly failed to
provide substantive discovery responses and trial date was only two months from
hearing on motion for terminating sanctions).)
            “While
there is no question but that a trial court, under appropriate circumstances,
has the power to sanction a party who refuses to provide discovery to which his
adversary is entitled, the sanction chosen must not be the result of an
arbitrary selection. It should not deprive a party of all right to defend an
action if the discriminating imposition of a lesser sanction will serve to
protect the legitimate interests of the party harmed by the failure to provide
discovery.”  (Thomas v. Luong
(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 76, 81–82; Morgan v. Ransom (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d
664, 669 (incarcerated, indigent, pro per plaintiff's delay in serving
responses insufficient to justify imposition of terminating sanctions where no
prejudice demonstrated).) 
            “A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court
is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.”  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (terminating sanctions proper despite
service of verified responses after their imposition where defendant repeatedly
failed to respond to discovery or comply with court discovery orders).)  Where there is a pattern of discovery abuse,
the trial court is “not required to allow this pattern of abuse to continue ad
infinitum.”  (Id. at 280.)  Imposition of terminating sanctions is
appropriate where imposition of a lesser sanction would permit the
non-compliant party to benefit from their stalling tactics.  (Collisson & Kaplan, supra, 21
Cal.App.4th at 1620.)
            Traditionally,
a court’s inherent power to dismiss or terminate an action has been recognized
in cases of delay in prosecution or instances of sham, fraudulent or vexatious
lawsuits.  (Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v.
Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, 758.)  However, case law has expanded such power to
cases of extreme litigation abuse.  (CCP
§§581(m) and 583.150; Del Junco v. Hufnagel (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 789,
799 (acknowledging inherent power to impose terminating sanctions as referenced
in CCP §§581 and 583.150).)  “[W]e
conclude that California trial courts have inherent power to issue a
terminating sanction when a plaintiff's misconduct is deliberate, is egregious,
and makes lesser sanctions inadequate to ensure a fair trial.”  (Stephen Slesinger, Inc., supra, 155
Cal.App.4th at 758.)  Exercise of this
power need not be preceded by violation of a court order and is reviewed for
abuse of discretion.  (Id. at 763
and 765.)  
Discussion
            Parties’ Positions
            Plaintiffs’ Position
            Plaintiffs
ask that the Court impose monetary, evidentiary, issue and terminating
sanctions against Defendants based on their failure to preserve critical
security footage despite repeated written preservation notices prior to the
time of destruction.  Plaintiffs argue
Defendants concealed destruction of the evidence for two years, prevented
Plaintiffs from accessing the premises to confirm Defendants’ explanation for
the destruction and failed to comply with the Arbitrator’s March 9, 2024
order.  Plaintiffs argue the security
footage is a condition of Defendants’ Cannabis licenses and would directly
prove Plaintiffs’ claims and disprove Defendants’ contentions of Plaintiffs’
wrongdoing at the cannabis facilities.  Plaintiffs
argue the Court should impose terminating sanctions against Defendants for
their failure to preserve the security footage, despite Plaintiffs’ request in
February 2020 that it do so.  Plaintiffs
ask that the Court impose evidentiary or issue sanctions if it chooses not to
impose terminating sanctions. Plaintiffs ask that the Court impose monetary
sanctions regardless of whether it chooses to impose terminating, evidentiary
and/or issue sanctions.  
            Defendants’
Opposition
            Defendants
argue none of the request sanctions should be imposed against them, because the
security footage was not willfully destroyed. 
Defendants responded to Plaintiffs’ discovery request for the footage
with a statement that the footage was unavailable, because the electronic
information system automatically destroyed the footage 90 days after
recordation.  Defendants argue they did
not know until years later that the system automatically destroyed footage 90
days after recordation.  Defendants argue
counsel should not be sanctioned, because he was not able to reach Buss and has
moved to be relieved as counsel. 
Defendants also argue sanctions are unwarranted, because they met and
conferred in good faith to informally resolve the issue.   
            Plaintiff’s
Reply
            On
reply, Plaintiffs argue Defendants’ explanation for loss of the security camera
footage does not apply to short clips and video footage identified by Buss as
existing and available as of July 6, 2022. 
Plaintiffs argue the opposition fails to explain how these short clips
and photos could have survived the automatic deletion of such items every 90
days by the electronic system.  Plaintiffs
argue it is also incredible that Defendants did not produce copies of the
relevant footage to their attorney when they initiated the First Arbitration in
2020, when the footage still existed.  Plaintiffs
argue Defendants have also previously indicated that they would fully comply
with all discovery obligations but have failed to do so.  Plaintiffs argue Defendants have also failed
to provide supplemental responses promised on December 22, 2022, provide access
to the premises, answer questions ordered by the Arbitrator and remedy
outstanding discovery as promised to the Court on November 11, 2023.  If the Court chooses not to impose any of the
sanctions, Plaintiffs ask that this motion be continued to be heard with the
other motions to compel set for October 24, 2024, January 27, 2025, May 2, 2025
and May 16, 2025.  
            Plaintiffs’
Request for Terminating, Evidentiary, Issue and Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.
            In
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, the
Supreme Court declined to recognize a separate tort cause of action for
intentional spoliation of evidence. 
Acknowledging that “[t]he intentional destruction of evidence is a grave
affront to the cause of justice and deserves our unqualified condemnation,” the
Court held it was “preferable to rely on existing nontort remedies rather than
creating a tort remedy.” (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center v. Superior Court
(1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 4.)  In particular,
the Court explained that Evidence Code section 413 and standard civil jury
instructions authorized the finder of fact to consider willful suppression of
evidence when evaluating the inferences to be drawn from the evidence presented
(Id. at 12) and “potent” sanctions, including issue sanctions, evidence
sanctions and terminating sanctions, are available under the discovery statutes
for misuse of the discovery process. (Id.) The Court observed,
“Destroying evidence in response to a discovery request after litigation has
commenced would surely be a misuse of discovery within the meaning of [Code of
Civil Procedure former] section 2023, as would such destruction in anticipation
of a discovery request.” (Id.)
            On
reply, Plaintiffs attempt to expand the grounds for imposition of the requested
sanctions.  Plaintiffs may not do
so.  Based on the Notice of Motion and
opening brief, Plaintiffs seek terminating, evidentiary, issue and/or monetary
sanctions based on the destruction of security footage relevant to allegations
that Plaintiffs did not know how to keep the cannabis plants, resulting in the
destruction of much of the crop. 
Plaintiffs rely on multiple requests for preservation of evidence,
discovery requests and meet and confers to establish willful destruction and
spoliation of evidence.  Based on the
notice of motion and opening brief, Plaintiffs’ motion is not based on
violation of any outstanding discovery orders.
            According
to Plaintiffs, they issued a preservation of evidence letter on February 11,
2020 demanding that Defendants preserve all evidence related to the
litigation.  (Kim Dec., ¶6.)  On March 6, 2020, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a
letter to Defendants identifying specific evidence that they had to preserve,
including all video evidence from the Premises where cannabis was grown.  (Id. at ¶7.)  In response to Plaintiffs’ July 26, 2021
document requests, Defendants filed a verified statement on July 6, 2022 that
they did not preserve the security video recordings and photos due to the
limitations of the digital video recorder, which could only store recordings
for 90 days.  (Id. at ¶11.)  Plaintiffs have also been unable to access
the premises.  (Id. at ¶¶13-16.)  On January 9, 2023, Defendants again
acknowledged in an email that the requested security footage had been
automatically destroyed due to the limitations of the DVR system to hold
recordings for 90 days.  (Id. at
¶15.)  On March 9, 2023, the Arbitrator
ordered Defendants to answer 15 questions regarding the unavailability of the
security footage but Defendants have not yet done so.  (Id. at ¶23.) 
            Buss
submitted a declaration in opposition. Buss maintains she had no idea that the
footage would be automatically deleted after 90 days.  (Buss Dec., ¶3.)           
            Plaintiffs’
evidence fails to demonstrate willful destruction of evidence, nor does it
establish discovery abuse that would justify imposition of terminating,
evidentiary, issue or monetary sanctions. 
Defendants have not violated a court discovery order.  To the extent they violate the arbitrator’s
order that they respond to the 15 questions, Plaintiffs should seek a lesser
remedy for that offense prior to seeking terminating, evidentiary, issue or
monetary sanctions.  Plaintiffs should
first attempt to compel responses formally and obtain a court order.  Plaintiffs are already in the process of
doing so and have several discovery motions on calendar for hearing in the
future.  
            In
addition, Plaintiffs argue that the requested sanctions are justified because
the evidence is crucial to Plaintiffs’ defenses to Defendants’ allegations of
failing to properly care for the cannabis plants.  Plaintiffs go so far as to say that they
cannot otherwise prove their claim that they improperly cared for the cannabis
plants or did not bring in trim to the facilities.  Plaintiffs have other sources of proof that could
establish that they did neglected the plants, including eyewitness testimony
and business records.
            Plaintiffs
fail to cite to any portion of the Discovery Act that provides a mechanism for
preservation of evidence, much less prelitigation preservation of evidence, nor
does it appear that the discovery sanctions were intended to aid in the
preservation of evidence.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1419-1420 (injunction requiring employees to preserve electronic evidence
properly issued; Discovery Act did not provide plaintiff with adequate remedy
at law for protecting electronic evidence from destruction).)  In fact, pursuant to CCP §2023.030(f)(1), “Notwithstanding
subdivision (a), or any other section of this title, absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any
attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information
that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as the result of the
routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system.”   
            At
this time, there is no evidence of intentional destruction of the video footage
or anything other than destruction via the routine operation of the DVR.  Certainly, the evidence is not as clear as
that presented in Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
1215, 1224.  In Williams, the
plaintiff attorney who allegedly destroyed evidence was warned by the storage
facility where he was keeping the evidence that the contents of his storage
space would be sold and/or destroyed if he did not remove them.  (Williams, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th
at 1224.)  Despite these warnings and
knowledge that his failure to act would result in sale and/or destruction of
the evidence, plaintiff did not remove the files and left them in his storage
space.  (Id.)  “We agree with the trial court that this is tantamount
to intentionally destroying those files.” 
(Id.)  Here, there is no similar
evidence that Defendants knew the security footage would be destroyed if not
preserved within 90 days of recordation. 

            Plaintiffs,
however, have a remedy if in fact it comes to light that the footage was
intentionally destroyed.  Plaintiffs can
ask for a spoliation instruction under CACI 2024 at trial.  CACI 204 provides, “You may consider whether
one party intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence. If you decide that a
party did so, you may decide that the evidence would have been unfavorable to
that party.”  Evidence Code § 413
provides, “In determining what inferences to draw from the evidence or facts in
the case against a party, the trier of fact may consider, among other things,
the party's failure to explain or to deny by his testimony such evidence or
facts in the case against him, or his willful suppression of evidence relating
thereto, if such be the case.”  In light
of the destruction of the relevant video footage, Plaintiffs are entitled to
conduct discovery into whether the recording was intentionally destroyed for
purposes of Evidentiary Code § 413 and CACI 204.  
            For
these reasons, Defendants’ Motion for Terminating, Evidentiary, Issue and
Monetary Sanction is DENIED.        
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: 
September 10, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 