  Case Number:  19CHCV00155    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-28-23 (8-21-23 ex parte order)
Case
#19CHCV00155
Trial
Date: N/A
 
VACATE SETTLEMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Lashon Bundy, Pro Per
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff,
Richard Bundy
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Vacate Order Enforcing Settlement Order
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Richard Bundy and Defendant Lashon Bundy, father and daughter, currently hold
title as joint tenants of certain real property in Mission Hills. Plaintiff
alleges the grant deed conveying joint title was obtained as a result of
manipulation. 
 
On
February 22, 2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Financial Elder Abuse, Quiet
Title, Ejectment, and Cancellation of Instrument. Defendant answered the
complaint on May 2, 2019. A lis pendens was recorded on the property on July
16, 2020. (Bertha Bundy passed away on April 6, 2014, and Richard Bundy and
Diane Brooks married in 2017.)
 
On
April 8, 2021, the court granted the application appointing Diane Brooks as
guardian ad litem for Richard Bundy. 
 
On
July 21, 2021, the court denied the motion of Plaintiff for summary judgment. The
parties subsequently stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint,
which was filed on August 3, 2021. The first amended complaint lists causes of
action for Financial Elder Abuse, Quiet Title, Ejectment, Cancellation of
Instrument, and Partition of Real Property. The parties later stipulated to
Lashon Bundy filing a cross-complaint for Quiet Title, Slander of Title,
Financial Elder Abuse, Deceit, and and Cancellation of Instrument, which was
filed on November 29, 2021.
 
On
June 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a notice of settlement and amended notice of
settlement. At the November 4, 2022, OSC re: Dismissal (Settlement) all parties
failed to appear. The court continued the hearing to February 8, 2023. On
February 8, 2023, the court granted the order of Plaintiff Richard Bundy to
list 15156 Kingsbury St., Mission Hills, for sale pursuant to the terms of the
settlement agreement. The court also granted the motion for appointment of an
elisor in order to facilitate the sale. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Defendant
Lashon Bundy, in pro per, moves to vacate the order enforcing the settlement
agreement, whereby 15156 Kingsbury St., Mission Hills, was to be listed for
sale, and the appointment of an elisor for execution of any necessary
documents. Lashon moves for relief on grounds of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. Plaintiff Richard Bundy in opposition contends Lashon
improperly seeks to relitigate the action without any basis of valid authority
under the mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect standard. Richard
maintains the motion alternatively constitutes an improper motion for
reconsideration. Lashon in reply maintains the motion was timely filed, and
contends the inability to refinance the property was the result of the lis
pendens and fraudulent claim on the deed.
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 
“The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed. (Citation.) The six-month period runs from entry of
default, not entry of judgment.” (Manson,
Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.) The hearing
itself took place on February 8, 2023. The actual order was entered on March
17, 2023. The motion was filed on August 25, 2023—161 days or five months and
eight (8) days. The motion is timely as to the challenge on the order.
 
“[A] trial court is obligated
to set aside a default, default judgment, or
dismissal if the motion for mandatory relief (1) is filed within six months of
the entry of judgment, (2) ‘is in proper form,’ (3) is accompanied by
the attorney affidavit of fault, and (4) demonstrates that
the default or dismissal was in fact caused by
the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’” (Martin Potts & Associates, Inc. v.
Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 443.) The lack of an actual
attorney affidavit bars a finding for mandatory relief on the motion. (See Hu v. Fang (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 61, 64.) The court therefore
considers the discretionary standard for relief. 
 
The order itself provides for the execution for a writ of
possession as to Lashon Bundy and any other occupants. Following entry of the
order, Lashon Bundy substituted into the action in pro per, and filed the
subject motion.
 
The court cannot determine any specific basis for relief from the order.
The
crux of the issue appears to be the language regarding the writ of execution
and Sheriff enforcement provision. Lashon contends any eviction will unfairly
deprive Lashon of the opportunity to refinance the property, being rendered
unhoused, and losing the property. 
 
Lashon
apparently intends to pursue this dispute with the order as part of a future
motion. On August 28, 2023, the court held an OSC re: Dismissal (Settlement),
and OSC re: Failure to Appear by Lashon on April 28, 2023. The court continued
the hearing to November 1, 2023. Lashon also filed and served a concurrent
motion to enforce settlement agreement for the same date.
 
The
court declines to consider any and all relief sought in the impending hearing,
and only addresses the item before the court. In terms of a basis for relief,
the court finds no basis of mistake, inadvertence or excusable neglect. Lashon
was represented by counsel at the time of the February 8, 2023, hearing and
March 17, 2023, entry of the order. A mere assertion of the standard under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) simply based on a different
understanding or disagreement with the order in no way renders the order
subject to a finding of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. The court
ruled on the motion for enforcement of the settlement agreement, and nothing in
the motion establishes a basis to vacate the order.
 
To the extent Lashon effectively seeks a reconsideration of
the order, any such relief is both untimely and improper. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1008.) The motion lacks any new facts or change in law. A disagreement with a
prior court order in no way supports relief. (Gilberd v.  AC Transit (1995)
32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499-1500.) 
 
The court denies the request for attorney fees in opposition.
Plaintiff may file a separate motion for fees.
 
Lashon Bundy to give notice.
 