 Case Number:  23CHCV00356    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-28-23 c/f 7-11-23
Case
#23CHCV00356
Trial Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, City of San Fernando
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Maria Villalvazo
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
May 22, 2022, Plaintiff Maria Villalvazo triped and fell on an uneven portion
of sidewalk pavement on or adjacent to the premises identified as 13811 Del Sur
Street. On February 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Governmental Tort
Liability and Negligence, Negligence, and Premises Liability. Defendant County
of Los Angeles answered the complaint on March 20, 2023. On September 1, 2023,
City of Los Angeles answered the complaint and filed cross-complaint against
City of San Fernando for Indemnification, Apportionment of Fault, and
Declaratory Relief.
 
RULING: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Request
for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice
that the address of 13811 Del Sur Street falls outside the jurisdictional
boundary for the government entity identified as the City of San Fernando.
[Declaration of Allison Hilgers, Ex. A.] (Evid. Code, § 452; Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1145.)
 
Defendant
City of San Fernando submits the subject demurrer on grounds that the
underlying incident occurred on or a near pavement outside the City of San
Fernando jurisdictional boundary. Plaintiff in opposition challenges any
finding via demurrer on a “disputed” fact. Plaintiff then proceeds to defend
the merits of the substantive allegations, including an argument that “the
Public Record is unequivocally clear that the property where [the] trip and
fall occurred is squarely within the city of San Fernando.” Plaintiff
alternatively requests leave to amend. City of San Fernando in reply maintains
Plaintiff is bound by the allegations in the complaint regarding the identified
address. The court can take judicial notice of the address. The complaint is
not reasonably subject to amendment. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
The operative complaint specifically and unequivocally
identifies the address of the trip and fall “as at or around” 13811 Del Sur
Street. [Comp., ¶ 9.] Consistent with the request for judicial notice, the
court finds the identified address of 13811 Del Sur Street, the alleged
location of the trip and fall, constitutes an identified address outside the
City of San Fernando jurisdiction. Plaintiff cannot state a claim for liability
against City of San Fernando based on a location outside its own jurisdictional
boundary. (Gov. Code, § 835, subd. (a).)
 
Notwithstanding this undisputed evidence regarding the
address itself, Plaintiff seeks to allege that the “adjacent” property to the
identified address falls into City of San Fernando jurisdiction. Plaintiff
cites to the Assessor Parcel Number, but otherwise offers no counter support
via judicial notice, and instead effectively doubles down on the allegations in
the operative complaint. Because the court is limited to the four corners of
the pleading and judicially noticeable information, the court accepts the possibility,
for purposes of the subject demurrer ONLY, that the “adjacent” property in an
undisclosed location identified as part of the assessor parcel number straddles
the City of San Fernando jurisdictional line. The court makes this conclusion
on the basis that it lacks an ability to verify the assessor parcel boundary
notwithstanding the acceptance of the map contained in the request for judicial
notice establishing the address boundary outside City of San Fernando, and the
allegations in the complaint. 
 
The court therefore sustains the demurrer with 15 days leave
to amend. The court grants Plaintiff leave only for purposes of alleging a
claim seeking to establish jurisdiction within the City of San Fernando based
on the claim that the assessor parcel number of the identified property
straddles both the City of Los Angeles and the City of San Fernando,
notwithstanding the judicially noticeable indisputable evidence that the
identified address presented in the complaint places the property identified outside
the City of San Fernando. Any material changes to the operative complaint
seeking to alter the address of the location in order to place the location
into the City of San Fernando on an otherwise geographically established
location outside the City of San Fernando may be subject to a demurrer under
the sham pleading standard.
 
Case Management Conference set for November 27, 2023.
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 