 Case Number:  23STCV16789    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
SIEDAH GARRETT, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
ADVANCE HOME IMPROVEMENT, INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV16789
  Hearing Date:  October 6, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 18, 2023, Plaintiffs Siedah
Garrett and Erik Nuri filed this action against Defendants Advance Home
Improvement, Inc., Moorpark USA, LLC, and Amnon Edri. The complaint asserts
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of statutory standards
in construction, (3) negligence, (4) breach of subcontracts, (5) intentional
misrepresentation, (6) fraudulent concealment, and (7) negligent misrepresentation.

            Plaintiffs own and reside in the
subject property located in Los Angeles. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs bring this
action against the developer (Advance Home Improvement, Inc.), seller (Moorpark
USA, LLC), and CEO of the developer (Amnon Edri). (Id., ¶¶ 2-4.) 
            Plaintiffs allege that they entered
into a Residential Purchase Agreement (RPA) with Seller on May 4, 2016. (Compl.
¶ 11.) Under the RPA, Seller was required to disclose all material defects with
the property. (Id., ¶ 12.) Seller also represented in a New Construction
Property Disclosure Statement (NCDS) that the property has been designed to
properly accommodate water runoff and that construction will occur in
conformance with specifications. (Id., ¶ 13.) Plaintiffs allege that
after taking possession, they discovered various defects, including water
intrusion, faulty plumbing, loose tiles, malfunctioning windows, poorly
installed shelving, dangerous electrical installations, and poor waterproofing.
(Id., ¶¶ 14, 19.) 
            Plaintiffs allege that they notified
Seller and Developer of the defects but that Defendants responded with ineffective
repairs and failed to identify the cause of the water intrusion. (Compl. ¶ 22.)
Defendants allegedly failed to make the proper repairs despite making
assurances and caused more damage in the process. (Id., ¶ 24.)
Defendants allegedly represented orally and in writing that they would make all
of the necessary repairs. (Id., ¶ 27.) Plaintiffs allege that they
reasonably relied on Defendants’ representations and delayed pursuing legal
remedies. (Ibid.)
            On August 31, 2023, Defendants
Advance Home Improvement, Inc. and Amnon Edri (Developer and its CEO) filed the
instant demurrer and motion to strike. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on
September 26, 2023. Defendants filed their reply on September 29, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Hampton
Decl.)
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiffs’ request for judicial
notice is denied because the Court cannot judicially notice the truth of
matters stated in public records, nor does the Court consider evidence on a
demurrer. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375; SKF Farms, supra,
153 Cal.App.3d at p. 905.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Joint Enterprise
            “The necessary elements of a joint
enterprise which will justify the imputation of liability are (1) a community
of interest in the object of the undertaking, and (2) an equal right to
control, i.e., to direct and govern the conduct of each other with respect
thereto.” (King v. Ladyman (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 837, 842.)
            Here, the complaint alleges that “Seller
and Developer share common ownership and a unity of interest, and are owned and
controlled by Edri, and acted at all relevant times as a joint and single
enterprise for the purpose of building and selling the Property to Plaintiff.”
(Compl. ¶ 5.) This sufficiently supports a reasonable inference of joint
enterprise for pleading purposes. Defendants argue that these are bare
allegations that fail to specify the necessary facts. However, Plaintiff has
alleged the requisite ultimate facts. Evidentiary facts demonstrating the precise
nature of the relationship between the Defendants should be left for discovery.
“Whether plaintiff is able to establish the allegations made, to the
satisfaction of a trial court or jury, or what the final outcome may be, are
matters of no importance” in a demurrer. (King, supra, 81 Cal.App.3d at
p. 842.) 
            b. Alter Ego
            “To succeed on their alter ego
claim, plaintiffs must be able to show (1) such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that no separation
actually exists, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts in question are
treated as those of the corporation alone.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 399, 417.) “Whether a party is liable under an alter ego theory is
a question of fact.” (Id. at p. 418.) 
            Here, the complaint alleges that
Developer and Seller are the alter egos of Defendant Edri. To support this
theory, the complaint alleges that: Edri controls the entity Defendants; the
Defendants are connected by a unity of interest; the businesses merely existed
as a shell for Edri to conduct personal business; the entities were undercapitalized;
and the entities did not issue stock or abide by corporate formalities. (Compl.
¶ 7.) The complaint alleges that adherence to the fiction of separate existence
would promote injustice. (Ibid.) This sufficiently establishes ultimate
facts to support a reasonable inference of alter ego for pleading purposes.
(See Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36
[finding similar allegations sufficient to survive demurrer].) The evidentiary
facts proving these allegations are not at issue. 
            Defendants argue that the complaint
is unclear as to which Defendant is the alter ego of which other Defendant. The
complaint clearly alleges that the business entity Defendants are the alter
egos of individual Defendant Edri. (See Compl. ¶ 7 [“Developer and Seller, the
named business entity Defendants were at all times the alter ego business of
the individual Defendant, Edri”].) This can also be reasonably inferred from
the nature of the alter ego doctrine, which is a method to pierce the corporate
veil to reach an individual. Ultimately, the complaint sufficiently places
Defendants on notice of the claim.  
            c. Misrepresentation
            “The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v. Superior Court
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than
with general and conclusory allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made. (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) “A plaintiff's burden in asserting a fraud claim
against a corporate employer is even greater. In such a case, the plaintiff
must ‘allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.’” (Ibid., quoting Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)      
The allegations
in the complaint do not satisfy the specificity standard. Plaintiff attributes
various misrepresentations to Defendants without specifying the content of the
statements, who made them, how, or when. These facts should be in Plaintiffs’
possession, as they are the ones asserting fraud based on specific statements
made to them. Plaintiffs argue that Edri clearly made the misrepresentations
because Edri is Developer’s CEO, acted on behalf of Developer, and controls
both Seller and Developer. (Opp. 12:5-14.) However, that does not necessarily
mean that Edri made all of the alleged misrepresentations. If Edri made specific
statements, Plaintiffs must simply allege so, rather than vaguely attributing representations
to “Defendants,” “Seller,” or “Developer” without identifying the authorized
spokesperson. Because the liberal pleading standards do not apply to fraud, the
Court cannot simply infer that Edri made every statement.  
Moreover, a mere
failure to abide by contract terms cannot constitute fraud. (See Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) Therefore, the fraud
claims cannot be based on Defendants’ failure to fulfill duties imposed by the
RPA, unless those duties derive from an independent source apart from the
contract. (Ibid.) It appears that Plaintiffs are attempting to turn a
breach of contract into fraud when they argue that the fraud is based on “specific
written misrepresentations in the RPA.” (See Opp. 12:18-23.) The “representations
in the RPA” are simply the terms of the contract, and the failure to abide by
those terms only amounts to breach of contract. 
            The
complaint otherwise adequately alleges scienter and knowledge of falsity. At
the pleading stage, “it is not necessary to allege the circumstantial evidence
from which it may be inferred that the representation or promise was false --
these are evidentiary matters which give rise to the misrepresentation. The
only essential allegation is the general statement that the representation or
promise was false and that the defendant knew it to be false at the time it was
made.” (Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974) 43
Cal.App.3d 145, 151.) Moreover, facts pertaining to Defendants’ knowledge and
intent are uniquely in Defendants’ possession. (See Alfaro v. Community
Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [“Less specificity should be required of fraud claims
when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy”].)
  
            d. Fraudulent Concealment 
            This
claim is based on the allegation that Defendants failed to disclose the various
defects with the subject property prior to Plaintiffs’ purchase. (Compl. ¶ 88.)
The complaint alleges that Defendants “had a duty law to make full and complete
disclosures of all material facts known to them affecting the value and
desirability of the Property.” (Id., ¶ 89.) The specific material
defects that Defendants allegedly failed to disclose are detailed in the
complaint. (Id., ¶¶ 14, 19.) Plaintiffs allegedly relied on the
concealment by purchasing the property. (Id., ¶ 91.)    
            Defendants
reiterate their argument regarding lack of specificity. However, the rule of
specificity “is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations.” (Alfaro,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.) “[I]t is harder to apply this rule to a
case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’
something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never
happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs cannot provide specificity regarding
nonexistent statements. Unlike the intentional and negligent misrepresentation
claims, the gravamen of this claim is what Defendants did not say. The
allegations in the complaint sufficiently establish fraudulent concealment. 
II. Motion to
Strike
“In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
Defendants argue
that the complaint contains no facts demonstrating willful malicious conduct.
However, the complaint alleges, at the very least, that Defendants
intentionally concealed material defects with the property in order to induce
Plaintiffs into purchasing the property. (Compl. ¶¶ 88-94.) This constitutes
fraud, which is a sufficient basis for punitive damages. (See Civ. Code, §
3294(c)(3).)
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the fifth and seventh causes of
action and OVERRULED in all other respects. The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 