 Case Number:  23STCV26236    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ADRIANA AGUILAR,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
S.D. 34 OFFICE INC., D/B/A AMERICAN PARA PROFESSIONAL
  SYSTEMS, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV26236




Hearing Date:


October 23, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF ADRIANA AGUILAR’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
  COMPLAINT[1]



 
Background
On
October 26, 2023, Plaintiff Adriana Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants S.D. 34 Office Inc., dba American Para Professional Systems,
Inc. (“APPS”) and Ally Contreras (jointly, “Defendants”). 
The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) discrimination, (2) harassment, 
(3) retaliation,
(4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, (5) failure
to provide reasonable accommodations, (6) failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process, 
(7) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy, (8) for declaratory judgment, (9)
failure to pay wages, (10) failure to provide meal and rest periods, (11)
failure to indemnify for necessary business expenses, (12) failure to provide an
accurate itemized wage statement, (13) waiting time penalties, and (14) “Private
Attorney General Act.”[2]
            In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges,
inter alia, that “[o]n or about November 2018, Defendants hired Plaintiff to work as a
phlebotomist, and in approximately May 2023, Defendant switched Plaintiff’s
position to a customer service representative.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) “During the hiring process, Plaintiff alerted
Defendant that she had a medical condition and/or disability which would
require Plaintiff to take occasional time off for doctors’ appointments.”
(Compl., ¶ 30.) “Throughout May and June 2023, Plaintiff was placed off work
following a doctor’s visit, yet Defendants required Plaintiff to continue
working against her doctor’s restrictions.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) “Following a doctor
mandated leave from June 22 through June 25, 2023, on July 6, 2023, Defendant
terminated Plaintiff’s employment.” (Compl., ¶ 34.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants
discriminated and retaliated against Plaintiff by failing to provide agreed
upon accommodations for Plaintiff’s medical leave, and by terminating Plaintiff
for engaging in a protected activity.” (Compl., ¶ 35.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “Defendants, including Defendant CONTRERAS, also subjected the
Plaintiff to harassment by subjecting Plaintiff to a hostile work environment
and forcing her to work in contravention of her doctor’s restrictions.”
(Compl., ¶ 36.) 
            Plaintiff moves for “an order permitting the filing of a First
Amended Complaint, which (1) adds a Negligent Supervision and Retention [sic];
(2) seeks an Order to add Defendant Sonia Hernandez as an individual Defendant;
and, (3) to also include specific allegations relating to the alleged cause of
action, as well as newly acquired factual allegations in support of the causes
of action.” Defendants oppose. 
            On September 25, 2024, the Court issued
a minute order continuing the hearing on the instant motion. The Court’s
September 25, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[a]t the hearing, Plaintiff requested a continuance
so Plaintiff could rectify the compliance with C.R.C.
3.324(b) without further delay and expense. The Court granted that request.
Hearing on Motion for Leave to Amend…is continued to 10/23/24…On or before
October 2, 2024 Plaintiff will file and serve an amended declaration with a
supplemental brief of no more than five pages, if needed. Defendant may file an
opposition and declaration(s) on or before October 9, 2024. The date requested
by Defendant. The opposition may be up to and including 15 pages. Any reply of
up to and including ten pages may be filed and served on or before October 16,
2024.” 
            On
October 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed supplemental briefing. On October 9, 2024,
Defendants filed a supplemental brief in opposition to the motion. On October
17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental reply. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
 section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. ((Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)  “[T]he court’s discretion
will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The
policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial
of leave to amend can be justified.” ((Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal citations omitted].) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the
motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission
to amend….”   ((Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or
added costs of preparation.” ((Solit v. Tokai
Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435,
1448.)
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The
motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by
page, paragraph, and line number. (Ibid.) Finally, “[a] separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: (1)
The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b), emphasis added.)
Exhibit 3 to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration is a copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). (Perez-Casillas Decl., p. 14.) In addition, Exhibit 4 to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration is a copy of the proposed FAC with redline changes. (Perez-Casillas
Decl., p. 14.) 
The proposed FAC adds a
new cause of action for negligent supervision and retention which alleges, inter
alia, that “Defendant APPS had reason to know that Defendant HERNANDEZ
created a risk or threat of harassment and/or injury to Plaintiff, as alleged
herein, due to previous complaints and Plaintiff’s complaint of Defendant
HERNANDEZ’s behavior, including but not limited to Defendant HERNANDEZ’s
harassment of Plaintiff and ratification by Defendant APPS through Defendant
CONTRERAS…Defendant APPS breached its duties by failing to properly supervise
or control INDIVIDUAL HARASSERS; and by failing to terminate the employment of
INDIVIDUAL HARASSERS so that Plaintiff could work in a reasonably safe
environment free from discrimination, hostility, intimidation, and harassment.”
(Perez-Casillas Decl., p. 14, Ex. 4, ¶¶ 136-137.) The proposed FAC also
includes additional factual allegations and names Sonia Hernandez as a
defendant. (Perez-Casillas Decl., p. 14, Ex. 4.)
Plaintiff’s counsel
states that “[t]he proposed First Amended Complaint accomplishes several
things: (1) It adds new facts after receiving evidence from written discovery
and through deposition testimony; (2) In [sic] adds Defendant Sonia Hernandez
as an individual harasser; (3) It adds a cause of action for Negligent
Supervision and Retention; (4) It adds factual allegations language to support
Plaintiff’s theory of liability in support of the cause of action.” (Perez-Casillas
Decl., ¶ 12.) 
In the September 25,
2024 Order on the instant motion, the Court noted that “[a]s an initial matter,
as noted by Defendants, Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting declaration does not
specify ‘[w]hen the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,’
or ‘[t]he reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.’ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (b)(3)-(4).) As
set forth above, the requirements of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) are mandatory.” (September 25, 2024
Order at p. 4:12-16.)
In his supplemental
declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[m]y office first learned about a
previous complaint made against soon-to-be Defendant Sonia Hernandez (‘Defendant
Hernandez’) by former employee, Maricela Perez (‘Ms. Perez’), in June 2024
during the discovery process. In July 2024, I confirmed this information
through a conversation with Ms. Perez. That same month, on July 29, 2024,
attorney Guile Gomez emailed Defendant’s Counsel her proposed First Amended
Complaint with the proposed stipulation.” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 22.)
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “Plaintiff’s counsel did not request an
amendment earlier because she did not confirm the existence of a prior
complaint made by Ms. Perez against Defendant Hernandez to her supervisor –
Defendant Ally Contreras – until July 2024. Although Ms. Aguilar knew that Ms.
Perez had experienced issues with Defendant Hernandez during her final days at
Defendant APPS, Ms. Aguilar remained unaware about Defendant APPS’ and
Defendant Contreras’ failure to investigate the formal complaint…including its
legal significance (i.e., Defendant’s negligence).” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas
Decl., ¶ 23.)  
Plaintiff’s counsel also
states that “[o]n June 11, 2024, my office received Plaintiff Aguilar’s
psychological report from her clinical psychologist. After reviewing the
report, Plaintiff’s counsel determined that naming Sonia Hernandez as a
Defendant was necessary. Initially, Plaintiff’s counsel had strategized to only
name Defendant Contreras as a Defendant, as she was Ms. Aguilar’s supervisor at
Defendant APPS and she made the decision to terminate her. However, given
Plaintiff’s intent to add a cause of action for her negligent supervision and
retention, coupled with the findings in her psychological report, Plaintiff’s
counsel determined that naming Sonia Hernandez as a Defendant was necessary.” (Suppl.
Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 25.) Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “Plaintiff’s
counsel did not request the amendment earlier because they attributed most of
Plaintiff Aguilar’s emotional distress to her wrongful termination. While the
wrongful termination did cause Plaintiff emotional distress, after reviewing
her psychological report, Plaintiff’s counsel learned that another cause of
Plaintiff’s emotional distress was Defendant Hernandez’s harassment, Defendant’s
failure to act, and the wrongful termination.” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶
26.)
In addition, Plaintiff’s
counsel states in his supplemental declaration that “[p]aragraphs 8 and 9 were
added to the FAC to give further information on Defendant Hernandez, including
alternative theories for her employment position. This information was not
added earlier because Defendant Hernandez was not included as a named Defendant.”
(Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 28.) Plaintiff’s counsel also states that “[p]aragraphs
33, 35, and 37-40 were added to the FAC based on evidence confirmed through
discovery, specifically, after Plaintiff’s deposition on June 27, 2024.
Plaintiff made the amendments in order for the allegations to comport with the
evidence obtained through Plaintiff’s testimony and documentary evidence. With
respect to Paragraph 40, this was also confirmed after my office received
Plaintiff Aguilar’s psychological report from her clinical psychologist on June
11, 2024,. [sic]” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff’s counsel
states that “[p]aragraphs 42 and 43 were added after learning about Ms. Perez
in June 2024 during the discovery process. In July 2024, I confirmed this
information through a conversation with Ms. Perez, which supported the addition
of these factual allegations.” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 31.)
Plaintiff’s counsel also
states that “[p]aragraph 34 was included in order to prevent a dispositive
motion, as California case law confirms that obesity is a protected disability
if it has a physiological cause, but weight alone is not protected under the
FEHA. Plaintiff added these allegations to ensure that it was clear that Plaintiff’s
obesity was indeed rooted in a physiological cause. Plaintiff researched these
cases in either June or July 2024, and the amendment was not made earlier
because counsel was not apprised of the specific case law until after their
research.” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 30.)
In their supplemental
opposition, Defendants assert that Plaintiff has still not complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324. Defendants
assert that “Plaintiff has still not submitted any declaration setting forth
when she first discovered the facts underlying her proposed amendments…Plaintiff
instead relies entirely on a declaration from her counsel…” (Suppl. Opp’n at
pp. 7:28-8:5, emphasis omitted.) But Defendants do not appear to cite to any
legal authority indicating that Plaintiff must submit her own declaration in
order to satisfy the requirements of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b). 
Defendants also assert
that Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration “does not identify when any facts were ‘discovered’
by Plaintiff, which is the relevant inquiry—not when Plaintiff’s counsel
recognized the existence or relevance of such facts.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p.
8:5-7.) The Court finds that for purposes of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), Plaintiff’s counsel’s
supplemental declaration adequately shows “[w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered,” and “[t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subds. (b)(3)-(4).) 
Defendants also argue
that Plaintiff “unreasonably delayed in seeking to amend.” (Opp’n at p. 14:24.)
Defendants assert that “[t]he redline of the proposed FAC demonstrates that the
only new allegations desscribe [sic] Plaintiff’s own experiences during her
employment. See Perez-Casillas Decl., Ex. 3, ¶ 33 (what Plaintiff claims
to have told the company), ¶ 34 (identifying alleged disability as obesity), ¶
35 (listing doctor’s appointments), ¶ 38 (describing alleged mistreatment by
Sonia). Plaintiff’s motion entirely fails to address when Plaintiff discovered
these facts or why they could not have been alleged earlier because…this
information was necessarily known to Plaintiff at least 14 months ago when she
still worked at APPS.” (Opp’n at pp. 14:27-15:5, emphasis omitted.) 
However, as discussed,
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff’s counsel did not request an
amendment earlier because she did not confirm the existence of a prior
complaint made by Ms. Perez against Defendant Hernandez to her supervisor –
Defendant Ally Contreras – until July 2024. Although Ms. Aguilar knew that Ms.
Perez had experienced issues with Defendant Hernandez during her final days at
Defendant APPS, Ms. Aguilar remained unaware about Defendant APPS’ and
Defendant Contreras’ failure to investigate the formal complaint…including its
legal significance…” (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶ 22.) As discussed above,
other additions to the proposed FAC are also discussed in Plaintiff’s counsel’s
supplemental declaration, as well as the reasons the proposed amendments were
not made earlier. (Suppl. Perez-Casillas Decl., ¶¶ 28-31.) 
Defendants assert that “[b]ecause
Plaintiff has conceded that she was aware of Marciela’s Perez’s earlier dispute
with Sonia prior to bringing her own lawsuit, Plaintiff has unduly delayed in
bringing her new claim for negligent supervision based on that incident. This
delay is not excused by Plaintiff’s counsel’s misleading statement about when
his ‘office’ learned of the claim or his purported actions to ‘confirm’
Maricela’s complaint.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 14:14-18.) But in support of this
assertion, Defendants cite to Jackson v. Bank of
Hawaii (9th Cir. 1990) 902 F.2d
1385, a non-binding federal case. 
Defendants also argue
that “Plaintiff’s failure to name Sonia as a defendant within the court’s
prescribed timeframe provides an additional basis for denying leave to amend.”
(Opp’n. at p. 16:4-5.) Defendants cite to the Court’s February 26, 2024 Case
Management Conference Order, which provides, inter alia, “5/31/24 Nonappearance
date by which Plaintiff agrees and Court orders Plaintiff to serve all doe
defendants or file a dismissal. If neither occurs, the Court will dismiss the
Does.” Defendants note that on May 31, 2024, the Court issued a minute order
providing, inter alia, that “[p]roof of service or a dismissal has not
been filed as to the doe defendants as of this date. Pursuant to the Case
Management Order filed February 26, 2024 the does are dismissed this date as
follows: The Court orders Doe(s) 1 through 20, inclusive, in Complaint filed by
ADRIANA AGUILAR on 10/26/2023 dismissed without prejudice.” 
Defendants assert that
“[n]early two months later, on July 29, 2024, in apparent disregard of the
Court’s May 31, 2024 order, Plaintiff filed an amendment form, purportedly
renaming one of the already-dismissed Doe defendants as Sonia Hernandez.”
(Opp’n at p. 8:7-9.) On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint
naming Sonia Hernandez in place of Doe 1. Plaintiff does not appear to address
this point in the reply. However, the foregoing argument appears to concern the
deficiency of Plaintiff’s July 29, 2024 Amendment to
Complaint, not Plaintiff’s instant motion for leave to file the FAC to include,
inter alia, Sonia Hernandez as a defendant. 
Defendants also argue
that “Plaintiff’s delayed amendment would prejudice Defendants.” (Opp’n at p.
16:6.) Defendants assert that “[t]he amendment will require, at minimum,
another deposition of Plaintiff and additional written discovery, including
because Plaintiff’s belated amendment leaves no time for Defendants to
challenge Plaintiff’s complaint by way of demurrer.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 15:5-8.)[3] Defendants
assert that they “still must take discovery on Plaintiff’s new theories to
account for the theoretical possibility that one of these claims survives
summary judgment. These costs and efforts will create further prejudice to
Defendants.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 16:6-8.) 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff
waited to bring these claims until after substantial discovery…had already been
taken, including Plaintiff’s own deposition.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 15:4-5.) In
her supplemental declaration, Defendants’ counsel states that “Plaintiff’s
counsel has served at least 138 requests for production, 115 interrogatories,
and at least 19 deposition notices on Defendants in this matter…APPS has
completed most non-expert discovery in this matter and has already deposed
Plaintiff.” (Suppl. Maraschino Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) 
Defendants also argue
that “[w]ith the current trial date, the absolute latest that Defendants can
have a hearing on their motion for summary judgment is March 13, 2025, and a
motion for that date must be filed and served during the week of December 19,
2024. However, it would be unwise (and quite costly) for Defendants to wait
until the last possible moment (and to incur all manner of pre-trial expenses)
before seeking a ruling on their summary judgment motion. As a result,
Defendants are filing their motion in the coming days, so that it can be heard
in January 2025, before expert discovery and pre-trial motions. (Maraschino
Decl., ¶ 5.) Permitting an amendment to the complaint now will, of course,
impede Defendants ability to obtain a resolution of the existing claims.”
(Suppl. Opp’n at pp. 15:17-16:4.) But Defendants do not appear to specify why
permitting an amendment would affect Defendants’ ability to obtain a resolution
of the existing claims. 
Defendants further
assert that “the proposed amendment means that the litigation will not be at
issue until the new party is served and all of the parties have filed responses
to the FAC. This will set the entire case back given that that a brand-new
party…will be added to the complaint less than 6 months before trial (and less
than two months before the summary judgment deadline). This will almost
certainly necessitate a continuance…” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 16:12-17.) 
In the original reply,
Plaintiff asserts that granting leave to amend will not severely prejudice
Defendants. Plaintiff asserts that “Defendants will still be within their
timeframe to file a motion for summary judgment/adjudication, trial is
currently seven (7) months away, and Defendant has deposed Plaintiff and the
third-party witness who provided notice that Sonia Hernandez created a
particular risk of harm. On the other hand, the amendments are necessary
because Plaintiff seeks to include all causes of action to ensure to hold the
same Defendant accountable for its negligence.” (Reply at p. 7:5-9.) 
In the opposition, Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s counsel’s
supporting declaration “consists of inadmissible evidence that lacks foundation
and contradicts Plaintiff’s own testimony,” such that “Plaintiff fails to
establish that justice will be served by the amendment.” (Opp’n at pp. 10:19; 14:5-6.)
In addition, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s motion should be denied because
the amendment is futile.” (Opp’n at p. 17:19.) However, the Court does not find
that the asserted legal deficiency of the proposed FAC warrants
denial of leave to amend. ((See Kittredge Sports Co.
v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“the preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings”]¿.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for leave to amend the Complaint. As set forth above, “the court’s discretion will usually be
exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring
amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend
can be justified.” ((Howard v. County of San
Diego, supra, 184
Cal.App.4th at p. 1428 [internal citations omitted].)
Lastly, Defendants assert that “[i]f the Court
is inclined to allow Plaintiff leave to make either of her proposed amendments
to the complaint, it should impose conditions on such an amendment to avoid
injustice and prejudice, including, at minimum, by adjusting the trial date,
allowing Defendants to reopen Plaintiff’s deposition, and requiring Plaintiff
to pay Defendants’ fees and costs for that additional deposition.” (Suppl. Opp’n at p. 19:5-9.) Defendants cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(2),
which provides that “[w]hen it appears to the satisfaction of the court
that the amendment renders it necessary, the court may postpone the trial, and
may, when the postponement will by the amendment be rendered necessary,
require, as a condition to the amendment, the payment to the adverse party of
any costs as may be just.” 
In
the supplemental reply, Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant makes representations
in its supplemental opposition brief that its motion for summary judgment will
be filed prior to this hearing, so Defendant should be articulate why it
requires Plaintiff Aguilar to sit for a deposition related to mistreatment by
Sonia Hernandez when it obtained all the testimony at her full-day deposition
on June 27, 2024.” (Suppl. Reply at p. 4:1-5.) But the Court finds that it is
just for Defendants to have the opportunity to depose Plaintiff regarding her
new allegations in the proposed FAC. As set forth above, Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides that “[t]he
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading…” (Emphasis added.) In the supplemental
reply, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute or oppose Defendants’ request that
Plaintiff pay Defendants’ fees and costs for Plaintiff’s additional deposition.
In
the supplemental reply, Plaintiff also does not appear to dispute or oppose
Defendants’ request that the Court “adjust[] the trial date…” (Suppl. Opp’n at
p. 19:7.) In order to permit Defendants the opportunity to conduct discovery
regarding the new allegations of the proposed FAC, as well as to file any demurrer
to the proposed FAC or other applicable motion, the Court finds that a brief
trial continuance is warranted here. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint is granted. The Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve the First
Amended Complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order.
The Court continues the final status conference to ______________, at ____
a.m./p.m., in Dept. 50 and trial to _____________, at 9:30 a.m., in Dept. 50. The
date for lodging the trial readiness and exhibit binders in Dept. 50 is
continued to ________ by 4 p.m. All discovery deadlines are continued based on
the new trial date.¿
The Court finds that Defendants may “reopen Plaintiff’s deposition,” (Suppl.
Opp’n at p. 19:7-8), but solely for purposes of Defendants addressing the new
allegations of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff is to pay
Defendants’ reasonable fees and costs for any additional deposition of
Plaintiff. ((Id.,
§ 473, subd. (a)(2).) 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  October 23, 2024                           
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


