 Case Number:  24STCV07254    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JOHN ANTHONY GALVAN,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EAN HOLDINGS, LLC, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  24STCV07254




Hearing Date:


October 23, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS EAN
  HOLDINGS, LLC AND ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR COMPANY OF LOS ANGELES, LLC’S
  DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT OF PLAINTIFF
 



 
Background
On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff John Anthony Galvan (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Ean Holdings, LLC, Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company
of Los Angeles, LLC, Enterprise Rentacar LLC, and Xujun Zheng. The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) “motor vehicle” and (2) general negligence.  
EAN Holdings, LLC and Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles,
LLC (jointly, the “Demurring Defendants”) now demur to the Complaint.[1]
Plaintiff opposes.  
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Cout grants the Demurring Defendants’
request for judicial notice as to Exhibits B and C. The Demurring Defendant’s
request for judicial notice is otherwise denied.
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the Complaint  
In the Complaint, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[o]n August 19, 2023, Plaintiff JOHN ANTHONY
GALVAN was traveling westbound on 6th Street, approaching the intersection of
6th Street and Windsor Boulevard. At the same time, Defendant XUJUN ZHENG was
traveling northbound on Windsor Boulevard, approaching the intersection of 6th
Street and Windsor Boulevard.” (Compl., p. 5.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a result
of Defendant XUJUN ZHENG’s unreasonable speed and failure to obey a stop sign
and Right Turn Only sign, Plaintiff’s and Defendant XUJUN ZHENG’s vehicles
collided, resulting in significant injury to the Plaintiff.” (Compl., p. 5.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “Defendants EAN HOLDINGS, LLC, ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR
COMPANY OF LOS ANGELES, LLC, ENTERPRISE RENTACAR LLC…were liable for the
Plaintiff’s injuries due to their negligent entrustment of the vehicle to
Defendant XUJUN ZHENG.” (Compl., p. 5.) 
C.    Demurring Defendants’ Arguments 
In the first cause of
action for “motor vehicle,” Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “the
acts of defendants were negligent; the acts were the legal (proximate) cause of
injuries and damages to plaintiff,” and that the acts occurred on August 19,
2023 “at or near the intersection of 6th Street and Windsor Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA.” (Compl., p. 4.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he defendants who
entrusted the motor vehicle are…EAN HOLDINGS, LLC; ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR
COMPANY OF LOS ANGELES, LLC; ENTERPRISE RENTACAR LLC.” (Compl., p. 4.) 
The Demurring Defendants
argue that the allegations of the Complaint are conclusory, as there “is no
mention as to how the subject vehicle was entrusted, let alone negligently, and
how the entrustment caused the Incident.” (Demurrer at p. 2:25-26, emphasis omitted.)
The Demurring Defendants cite to Lindstrom v. Hertz
Corp. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 644,
648, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] rental car company
may be held liable for negligently entrusting one of its cars to a customer. It
is generally recognized that one who places or entrusts his [or her] motor
vehicle in the hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the circumstances
is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be held liable
for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver, provided the
plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was proximately caused by
the driver’s disqualification, incompetency, inexperience or recklessness…The
cause of action parallels that at common law for negligent entrustment, resting
on a demonstration of knowing entrustment to an incompetent or dangerous driver
with actual or constructive knowledge of his incompetence.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
As set forth above, the
Complaint alleges that “Defendants EAN HOLDINGS, LLC, ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR
COMPANY OF LOS ANGELES, LLC, ENTERPRISE RENTACAR LLC…were liable for the
Plaintiff’s injuries due to their negligent entrustment of the vehicle to
Defendant XUJUN ZHENG.” (Compl., p. 5.) But as noted by the Demurring Defendants,
Plaintiff does not appear to allege how the Demurring Defendants purportedly
negligently entrusted the subject vehicle to Xujun Zheng.  
            The Demurring Defendants also cite
to 49 U.S.C. section 30106, subdivision (a), which
provides that “[a]n owner of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle
to a person (or an affiliate of the owner) shall not be liable under the law of
any State or political subdivision thereof, by reason of being the owner of the
vehicle (or an affiliate of the owner), for harm to persons or property that
results or arises out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle
during the period of the rental or lease, if—(1) the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner) is engaged in the trade or business of renting or
leasing motor vehicles; and (2) there is no negligence or criminal
wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an affiliate of the owner).”  
            Exhibit “B” to the Demurring
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is a Statement of Information for EAN
Holdings, LLC filed with the California Office of the Secretary of State on
February 7, 2023. (Demurring Defendants’ RJN, Ex. B.) The Statement of
Information for EAN Holdings, LLC lists “motor vehicle rental and related
service” next to “type of business.” (Ibid.)

In
addition, Exhibit “C” to the Demurring Defendants’ request for judicial notice
is a Statement of Information for Enterprise Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles,
LLC filed with the California Office of the Secretary of State on July 13,
2023. (Demurring Defendants’ RJN, Ex. C.) The Statement of Information for Enterprise
Rent-A-Car Company of Los Angeles, LLC lists “motor vehicle rental, sharing,
and sales” next to “type of business.” (Ibid.)

            The Demurring Defendants assert that
accordingly, 49 U.S.C. section 30106, subdivision
(a), is applicable here. As set forth above, this provision concerns “owner[s]
(or an affiliate of the owner)…engaged in the trade or business of renting or
leasing motor vehicles…” (49 U.S.C. § 30106, subd.
(a)(1).) The Demurring Defendants assert that the demurrer should be sustained
because the Complaint does not allege “negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the
part of the owner (or an affiliate of the owner).” (49
U.S.C. § 30106, subd. (a)(2).) This does not appear to be disputed by
Plaintiff. Rather, in the opposition, Plaintiff appears to concede the merit of
this argument. Specifically, Plaintiff asserts that “this argument is moot if
Plaintiff can allege direct negligence on Defendants’ behalf, namely…that
Defendants engaged in an independent act of negligence or criminal wrongdoing
at the time of vehicle rental. Should the Court exercise its necessary
discretion, permitting Plaintiff to amend, such direct negligence allegations
will eliminate this argument.” (Opp’n at p. 5:7-11.) 
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
sustains the Demurring Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint.  
            Conclusion

Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the Demurring Defendants’
demurrer to the Complaint, specifically, the first and second causes of action
of the Complaint, with leave to amend. 
The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court orders the
Demurring Defendants to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within
30 days of the date of this order. (¿Donald v. Cafe
Royale, Inc. (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 168, 186 [“An order sustaining a demurrer without leave to
amend is not a final judgment; a judgment of dismissal follows such an order as
a matter of course.”]¿.)¿ 
The Demurring
Defendants are
ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  October 23, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


