 Case Number:  24STCV16298    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  49 On Roth v. Anat Group, Inc., et al.(1) PLAINTIFF ON ROTH’S MOTION TO COMPEL NON-PARTY AVITAL ITZHAKI, TRUSTEE OF THE ITZHAKI TRUST’S COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PERSONAL APPEARANCE AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND THINGS; (2) REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS OF $5,507.75 MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff On RothRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff On Roth, as an alleged thirty-five percent owner of Defendant Anat Group, Inc., brings this action for involuntary dissolution of the company under Corporations Code section 1800. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Mordechy Rozenbaum, the current officer and director of the company, has breached fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiff. Defendant now moves to compel non-party Avital Itzhaki, Trustee of the Itzhaki Trust’s compliance with deposition subpoena for personal appearance and production of documents and things. No opposition was filed.TENTATIVE RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE based on the failure to personally serve the non-party with the motion.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice to all interested parties.DISCUSSION:Motion to Compel Non-Party’s Compliance with SubpoenaA. Legal Standard“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” (CCP § 2025.480.) Likewise, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court[,]…the court, upon motion reasonably made by any [party] or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order…directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare…” (CCP § 1987.1(a).) “When a subpoenaed nonparty fails to appear for a deposition or produce documents that were properly requested, the party who subpoenaed the witness may move to compel compliance with the subpoena.” (Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh (2005) 131 Cal. App. 4th 1342, 1351.)B. Background and AllegationsIn 21STCV23656, On Roth v. Roy Pelleg, et al. (the “Previous Case”), Plaintiff On Roth alleged that Defendant Roy Pelleg obtained a 15% stake in Plaintiff’s cannabis business, Anat Group, which possessed a valuable Phase 2 license. Later Plaintiff transferred an additional 50% of the business to Defendant Pelleg under an Irrevocable Undertaking. Pelleg then transferred ownership to his wife, Defendant Ady Batsheva Shifman Pelleg. Plaintiff brought the Previous Case to rescind the transfer of the additional 50% ownership, alleging that Pelleg made material misrepresentations and breached the Irrevocable Undertaking. Plaintiff asserted causes of action for (i) fraud: false promise; (ii) fraud: intentional misrepresentation; (iii) breach of written contract; (iv) breach of fiduciary duty; (v) conversion; (vi) falsifying documents; (vii) extortion; (viii) conspiracy to commit conversion; (ix) constructive trust; (x) violation of Corporation Code sections 213 and 1600; (xi) accounting; and (xii) unfair business practices in violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200. On June 23, 2023, this court granted Defendant Pelleg’s motion for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff, dismissing the case with prejudice. (See 06/23/2024 Ruling in 21STCV23656.)Plaintiff then filed the current case, 24STCV16298 On Roth v. Anat Group, Inc., et al. Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Mordechy Rozenbaum has replaced Defendant Shifman as Anat Group’s sole officer and director without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent. (Compl. ¶ 35.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant Rozenbaum breached fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiff by, among other things, failing to distribute to Plaintiff his share of profits in Anat Group. (Id. ¶¶ 41, 42.) Plaintiff now seeks involuntary dissolution of Anat Group and asserts additional causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty, false impersonation, violations of Corp. Code sections 213 and 1601 et seq., violation of Corp. Code section 1500 et seq., accounting, and violation of Penal Code section 496. C. AnalysisPlaintiff moves to compel the deposition of non-party Avital Itzhaki. Itzhaki is the Trustee of Itzhaki Trust, which is Anat Group’s landlord for the property at 7463 Varna Ave, Los Angeles, CA 91605. It is Plaintiff’s position that Itzhaki and/or the Trust, as Anat Group’s landlord, are in possession of Anat Group’s financial records and forms relating to Anat Group’s cannabis license. Therefore, Plaintiff “seeks to question Mr. Itzhaki regarding his knowledge of, among other things, the financial status of Anat Group, its licensing status, and other relevant information in connection with the business operations of Anat Group.” (Mtn. 2: 10-12.) Accordingly, Plaintiff personally served a deposition subpoena on non-party Itzhaki on August 21, 2024, for a scheduled deposition of September 25, 2024. (Heath Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Itzhaki did not appear for the deposition and Plaintiff took his nonappearance. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. 3.)As a preliminary issue, the Proof of Service indicates the motion and supporting papers were served on non-party Itzhaki by mail and email. (See Proof of Service.) But under Rule of Court Rule 3.1346, “[a] written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346 [emphasis added].) There is no evidence that Itzhaki agreed to accept service by mail or email. Therefore, the motion is procedurally defective and must be denied on this basis. If not for this issue, the unopposed motion would be granted due to Itzhaki’s unexplained failure to appear for his properly noticed deposition. Evidence is relevant if it “ha[s] any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.” (Evid. Code § 210.) Plaintiff has demonstrated that Itzhaki might possess information relevant to the claims at issue in this suit. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE based on the failure to personally serve the non-party with the motion. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   December 18, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.