  Case Number:  23GDCV00385    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 11/21/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 23GDCV00385
Trial Date: 02/10/2025
Case Name: FRANCISCO M. PEREZ, an individual; and JOHN C. PEREZ, an individual
v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, a Delaware Corporation, and DOES 1-10, inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING – MOTION TO COMPEL Res ID 6867
 
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Plaintiffs
FRANCISCO M. PEREZ and JOHN C. PEREZ (“Plaintiffs”) will, and hereby do, move
for an order striking Defendant FORD MOTOR COMPANY’s (“Defendant”) objections
and to compel (1) the testimony of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable
(“PMK”) pertaining to Matters for Examination 1 through 74, and (2) responses
and production of documents pursuant to Plaintiffs’ associated Request for
Production of Documents, numbers 1-70 (collectively, the “Requests”), at the
time of the PMK deposition.
 
This
Motion is made pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2025.450 and
2031.310, et seq., on the grounds that Defendant failed to provide a witness to
a properly noticed deposition and failed to provide adequate responses to
Plaintiffs’ document requests, which seek documents relevant to the asserted
Song-Beverly Act claims.
 
On
March 16, 2021, Plaintiffs purchased a 2020 Ford Mustang, having VIN No.:
1FA6P8CF9L5191497 ("the Subject Vehicle”). Defendant warranted the Subject
Vehicle and agreed to preserve and maintain the utility and performance of the
Subject Vehicle or to provide compensation if there was a failure in such
utility or performance.
 
According
to the repair and warranty records, Plaintiffs allege the Subject Vehicle was
delivered to Plaintiffs with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty
and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty.
 
To
establish the asserted claims, Plaintiffs served PMK deposition notices
describing with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested, and the documents for production at deposition. Plaintiffs
rightfully seek this testimony and these documents to support Plaintiffs’
allegation that Defendant willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act.
 
To
date, Defendant has not adequately responded to Plaintiffs´ PMK Deposition
Notices, nor has Defendant adequately addressed the contents of Plaintiffs´
meet and confer letters. Furthermore, Defendant has not yet proffered all
responsive documents to the associated Request for Production of Documents.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs request that this Court issue an order (1) striking all of
Defendant´s objections as to the Matters of Examination, and compelling
Defendant to produce a PMK witness for all Matters of Examination requested in
Plaintiffs’ Notice of PMK Deposition; (2) striking all of Defendant´s Request
for Production objections, and compelling Defendant to produce all responsive
documents requested in Plaintiffs’ Amended Notice of PMK Deposition; and (3)
compelling the production of Defendant’s PMK witness and all responsive
documents within 10 calendar days from entry of this Court´s Order.
 
The
Motion is based upon this Notice, the following Memorandum of Points and
Authorities, the Declaration of Gregory Sogoyan, Esq., the pleadings and papers
on file, and upon any other matters that may be presented to the Court at the
hearing.”
 
(Pl.
Notice p. 2-3.)
 
Procedural
Moving
Party: Plaintiffs, Francisco M. Perez and John C. Perez (Plaintiffs or Movants)
Responding Party: Defendant, Ford Motor Company (Defendant)
16/21 Day Lapse (CCP § 12c and § 1005(b)): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Separate Statement;
Sogoyan Declaration; Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Opposition Separate
Statement
Reply Papers: Reply
BACKGROUND
On
2/24/2023, Plaintiffs, Francisco M. Perez and John C. Perez, filed the instant
action against Defendant, Ford Motor Company, alleging three causes of action
for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Violation
of the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2.
The instant action pertains to Plaintiffs’ March 16,
2021 purchase of a 2020 Ford Mustang.
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs seek to strike
Defendant’s objections and to compel (1) the testimony of Defendant’s PMK
pertaining to matters for examination 1-74, and (2) responses and production of
documents pursuant to Plaintiffs’ associated RFPs, numbers 1-70.

The
Court points Movants to CCP § 2025.450(b)(1)-(2):
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:
 
(1) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.
 
(CCP §
2025.450(a)-(b).)
 
With respect to the meet
and confer requirement, Plaintiffs did not meet and confer. 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
declaration explains how the amended deposition notice was served on September
19, 2024. (Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 18.) 
 
However, Segoyan also
states he sent a meet and confer letter about the deposition notice on September
19, 2024. (Sogoyan Decl. ¶ 21.)
 
This makes little sense
because that means Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter regarding
the amended deposition notice on the same day the deposition notice was sent. 
 
“A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.” (CCP § 2016.040.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’
meet-and-confer letter on September 19, 2024 could not have possibly addressed
the issues raised in this motion when Defendant did not even respond to the amended
deposition notice until October 1, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ meet-and-confer
letter could not have even addressed the responses that Defendant provided when
Plaintiff sent the meet and confer letter before Defendant provided responses.
 
Further, with respect to
the latter half of 2025.450(b)(2), “or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance,”
Plaintiffs also did not meet this requirement. 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
declaration did not state that Plaintiffs contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance. 
 
Both parties are ordered to meet and confer to resolve
the discovery issues they may still have.
 