 Case Number:  24STCV04359    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


July 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV04359




MOTION:  


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant National Community Renaissance of California




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Delmy Yadira Vargas Hernandez, Sebastian
  Gonzalez, Delmy S. Gonzalez, Babie J. Gonzalez



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Delmy Yadira Vargas Hernandez, Sebastian Gonzalez, Delmy S. Gonzalez, and Babie
J. Gonzalez (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendant National Community Renaissance of
California (“Defendant”) for habitability violations.  Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion.
ANALYSIS
“[A] demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a
demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.) 
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Plaintiffs’ first cause
of action is for breach of contract.  Plaintiffs
allege Defendant breached the terms of the lease with Plaintiffs by failing to
provide a habitable unit.  (Complaint, ¶
19.)  For pleading purposes, these
allegations suffice.  Plaintiffs attach a
lease addendum to the complaint and allege this is the operative agreement
between the parties.  (Id., ¶ 16,
Exhibit B.)  Defendant argues this
agreement is not a lease, but rather an addendum to a lease.  That is immaterial.  Plaintiffs allege Defendant breached the
agreement Plaintiff attached to the complaint. 
Plaintiffs are entitled to plead breach of contract in general
terms.  (See Ochs
v. PacifiCare of California. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 795 [“In an action
based on a written contract, the plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the
contract rather than its precise language”].) 
Defendant may obtain further information regarding Plaintiff’s
claims through discovery.  The demurrer
to the first cause of action is overruled. 

Likewise,
Defendant’s argument Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for nuisance is
duplicative fails.  Plaintiffs are
entitled to plead in the alternative.  (See
Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1402 [“modern
practice allows  . . . party to plead in
the alternative and make inconsistent allegations”].)  The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
overruled.
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’
seventh cause of action for violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code section
45.30 fails because Plaintiffs’ apartment is not within the city limits of Los
Angeles.  Plaintiffs concede this
point.  Accordingly, the court sustains
the demurrer to the seventh cause of action. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs seek leave to amend to assert a claim under
the Los Angeles County Code, asserting they were under the mistaken understanding
the subject property was located in the City of Los Angeles.  “[U]nder this state’s liberal rules of
pleading, ‘the right of a party to amend to correct inadvertent misstatements of
facts or erroneous allegations of terms cannot be denied.’ [Citation.].”  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th
936, 945.)  Therefore, the court will grant
Plaintiff leave to amend the seventh cause of action.  
Defendant moves to
strike the prayer for punitive damages. 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)   Therefore, a plaintiff must allege the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “‘Malice’ is defined as
conduct ‘intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,’ or ‘despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.’ [Citation.]” (College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.)   “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendant
failed to maintain the apartment Plaintiffs leased from Defendant in a
habitable condition, and Defendant did not remedy such conditions even though
Plaintiffs informed Defendant of the issues. 
(See, e.g., Complaint, ¶¶ 10-12.) 
However, Plaintiffs do not allege any specific facts to show Defendant
acted with malice, rather than negligently. 
As such, Plaintiffs have not alleged a claim for punitive damages
against Defendant.  The court grants the
motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages with leave to amend.
Defendant also
moves to strike the prayer for attorney fees. 
Plaintiffs allege they are entitled to attorney fees pursuant to the
terms of their lease with Defendant. 
However, the lease Plaintiffs attach to the complaint does not contain
an attorney fees provision.  Plaintiffs concede as much. 
“If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those alleged, the facts
in the exhibits take precedence.”  (Holland v. Morse Diesel Intern.,
Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)  Accordingly, the
motion to strike the prayer for attorney fees is granted without leave to
amend.  Should Plaintiffs obtain evidence
of an applicable contractual attorney fees provision in discovery or determine
there is any other bases for an award of attorney fees, Plaintiffs may file a
motion for leave to amend their complaint, accordingly.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ seventh
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  Defendant’s demurrer is otherwise
overruled.  
Defendant’s motion to strike the punitive
damages allegations is granted with leave to amend.  Defendant’s motion to strike the prayer for
attorney fees is granted without leave to amend at this time.  Plaintiffs are to file an amended complaint within
10 days. 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and file proof of service of same.
 