 Case Number:  23CHCV01623    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date: 4/10/24 
Case #23CHCV01623
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

APRIL 9, 2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV01623

¿ 
Demurrer filed: 11/1/23
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Danielle Mae Longboy (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Deokja O; and Sehong O (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant
demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire first amended complaint (“FAC).
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled.
Defendant to file and serve her answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC within 30 days.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This is a quiet title action in
which Plaintiffs, a married couple and parents to defaulted defendant Heasuk O,
allege that Defendant and Heasuk (collectively, “Defendants”) were in a
romantic relationship together since 2004. (FAC ¶¶ 4, 7, 14.) On 9/20/13,
Plaintiffs purchased the subject property, located at 10973 Beckford Ave.,
Northridge, CA 91326, for which they paid the down payment, and all mortgage
payments, taxes, and insurance until 2018. (Id. at ¶¶ 10, 21–22.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that on 9/18/18,
they transferred ownership of the subject property to Defendants, “as husband
and wife, as community property with right of survivorship” with the
expectation that the two would get married. (Id. at ¶¶ 25–26.) However,
Defendants ended their romantic relationship in 2023 and signed a private
settlement agreement stating, in relevant part, that Defendants “currently hold
title in the Beckford Residence as HEASUK O and DANIELLE MAE LONGBOY, as
husband and wife as community property with the right of survivorship. The
Parties shall sign a corrective grant deed as tenants in common.” (Id. at
¶¶ 32–33, citing Ex. 6 to FAC.)
 
On 6/2/23, Plaintiffs filed their original
complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Cancellation
of Instruments; and (2) Quiet Title. On 10/2/23, Plaintiffs filed their FAC,
alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Cancellation of
Instruments; (2) Constructive Trust; (3) Quiet Title; (4) Slander of Title; (5)
Partition by Sale and Accounting. On 9/29/23, default was entered against
Heasuk.
 
On 11/1/23, Defendant filed the
instant demurrer. On 3/22/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. No reply has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) 
 
Here,
Defendant¿demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire FAC on the basis that Plaintiffs fail¿to
allege facts sufficient any of the causes of action contained therein.
 
A.    Meet-and-Confer
 
Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and
serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.
at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel declares on 10/24/23, he emailed Plaintiffs’
counsel a letter discussing the issues raised in the instant demurrer, (Decl.
of Omar Gastelum ¶ 3.) On 10/27/23, Plaintiffs’ counsel responded by email, but
the parties were unable to come to a resolution. (Ibid.) Therefore,
counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.    
Cancellation of Instruments
 
Plaintiffs’
first cause of action seeks to void the 9/18/18 Grant Deed from Plaintiffs to
Defendants. (FAC ¶ 47.) A “written instrument, in respect to which there is a
reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious injury to
a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his application, be so
adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.” (Civ. Code § 3412.)¿“To
prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the
instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud, and (2) there is a
reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the
prejudicial alternation of one's position.” (Weeden v. Hoffman (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 269, 294.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that the grant deed contained a condition precedent to the
transfer of title from Plaintiffs to Defendants, namely that Defendants were to
take ownership has “‘husband and wife’ … Plaintiffs never imagined - nor were
they adequately informed of the possibility - that DEFENDANTS would have claim
to the Property without completing their part of the bargain or receiving
anything in return for their investment.” (FAC ¶¶ 37–40.)
 
Defendant
argues that “here, the Deed transferring title of the Property to Defendant was
not void or voidable, and at the time of the transfer, Plaintiffs were well
aware that Defendant and Heasuk were not married and had no plans to get married.”
(Dem. 6:16–18.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “the fact that Defendants
were not and have never been married is unquestioned. Rather, the heart of the
issue is: the validity of the 2018 Deed” and the parties’ intent at the time of
execution. (Pls.’ Opp. 4:20–21.)
 
The Court
agrees with Plaintiffs, and notes that in a demurrer proceeding, the Court
assumes the truth of a plaintiff’s properly pled factual allegations. Here,
Plaintiffs have alleged that they “made a sizeable investment to purchase the
property and never intended to freely relinquish control of the Property,” and
that “transfer of the Property from Plaintiffs … to Defendant HEASUK O and
Defendant DANIELLE MAE LONGBOY was intended to take place upon the marriage of”
Defendants. (FAC ¶¶ 39, 42.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Cancellation of Instruments. Accordingly, the
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is overruled.
 
C.   
Constructive Trust
 
Plaintiffs’
second cause of action against Defendant alleges Constructive Trust. “One who
gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence, the violation of a
trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he or she has some other and better
right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the thing gained, for the benefit of
the person who would otherwise have had it.” (Civ. Code § 2224.)  “The case law explains that in order to
create a constructive trust as defined in section 2224, three conditions must
be satisfied: the existence of a res (property or some interest in the
property); the plaintiff’s right to that res; and the defendant’s acquisition
of the res by some wrongful act.” (Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp.
(2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1402.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “DEFENDANTS were aware that PLAINTIFFS never intended to
fully relinquish the rights to the Property and considered it part of their
financial portfolio,” and that “both Defendant Danielle and Heasuk colluded
during their private mediation to wrongfully claim Plaintiffs[’] property.”
(FAC ¶ 51; Pls.’ Opp. 5:13–14, citing Ex. 6 to Compl.)
 
Defendant
argues that “here, Defendant’s acquisition of the property is not wrongful by
any means. Plaintiffs voluntarily gave the Property to her and Heasuk.” (Dem. 7:12–14.)
Again, the Court finds that Defendant misinterprets the standard on demurrer
and that Plaintiffs’ properly pled factual allegations state that Plaintiffs
conditioned the transfer of title to the subject property to Defendants on the
condition precedent that Defendants got married. (FAC ¶¶ 37–40.) Plaintiffs
therefore contend that as Defendants ended their romantic relationship instead
of getting married, they can no longer become the owners of the subject
property and title rescinds to Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶ 42–43.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Constructive Trust. Accordingly, the demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is overruled.
 
D.   
Quiet Title
 
Plaintiffs’
third cause of action against Defendant alleges Quiet Title. An action for
quiet title seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real or
personal property or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd.
(a).) In an action for quiet title, a plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description
of the property that is the subject of the action,” specifically the location
of tangible personal property and the legal description and street address or
common designation of real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to
which a determination under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,”
(3) “[t]he adverse claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a
determination is sought,” (4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is
sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer for the determination of the title of the
plaintiff against the adverse claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that they “seek judicial declaration that they have a
superior claim and hold title to the [subject] Property over the claims of the
Defendants,” because the unmarried Defendants “cannot hold title as ‘Community
Property’ or ‘husband and wife.’” (FAC ¶¶ 59, 62.) Defendant argues that “Plaintiffs
are not currently on title to the Property. As such, this cause of action
fails.” (Dem. 8:3.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that they have sufficiently
alleged that they “seek to invalidate the most recent Deed as never fully
delivered and executed due to Defendants’ failure to perform.” (Pls.’ Opp. 6:2–3.)
 
The Court
agrees with Plaintiffs and finds that based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs have
alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Quiet Title.
Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is overruled.
 
E.    
Slander of Title
 
Plaintiffs’
fourth cause of action alleges against Defendant Slander of Title. “The
elements of a cause of action for slander of title are ‘(1) a publication, (2)
which is without privilege or justification, (3) which is false, and (4) which causes
direct and immediate pecuniary loss.’” (RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet
Metal Co., Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 413, 433, fn. 14.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’ malicious attempts at circumventing the
Court and normal Quiet Title Process is evident by their Settlement Agreement,”
which states in relevant part that Defendants “currently hold title in the
Beckford Residence as HEASUK O and DANIELLE MAE LONGBOY, as husband and wife as
community property with the right of survivorship. The Parties shall sign a
corrective grant deed as tenants in common.” (FAC ¶ 67; Ex. 6 to FAC.)
Plaintiffs further allege that “the property cannot be sold due to this Cloud
on the Title,” and that they “have incurred expenses in order to clear title to
the Property.” (FAC ¶¶ 68–69.)
 
Defendant
argues that “Plaintiffs executed the Grant Deed transferring ownership of the
Property to Defendant and Heasuk, and Plaintiffs have not suffered direct or
immediate pecuniary loss since title has remained in the names of Defendant and
Heasuk for the last five years.” (Dem. 8:10–13.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition
that “this, ignores the more than $425,000.00 (four-hundred and twenty-five
thousand dollar) down-payment on the property and 5 years of mortgage and tax
payments by the Plaintiffs, as well as, the increase in property value.” (Pls.’
Opp. 6:13–16.) The Court agrees with Plaintiffs and notes that Plaintiffs’
factual allegations dispute whether the 2018 grant deed did in fact transfer
ownership of the subject property to Defendants.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Slander of Title. Accordingly, the demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action is overruled.
 
F.    
Partition by Sale and Accounting
 
Plaintiffs’
fifth cause of action alleges against Defendant Partition by Sale and
Accounting. “A co-owner of property has an absolute right to partition unless
barred by a valid waiver.” (LEG Investments v. Boxler (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 484, 493, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 872.710, subd. (b).)
 
Defendant
argues that “here, Plaintiffs are not owners of the Property; therefore, this
cause of action fails.” (Dem. 8:20.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “ownership
rests on the determination of the validity of the 2018 Deed, which is currently
at issue.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:2–3.) The Court agrees, and finds that at the demurrer
stage, and as outlined above, Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that they
are entitled to seek a partition by sale of the subject property. Accordingly,
the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action is overruled.
 
The Court
takes note of the parties’ arguments concerning the return of property in
anticipation of marriage pursuant to Civil Code section 1590. To the extent
that Plaintiffs intend for this to be a separate cause of action in their FAC,
it has not properly been alleged as such. Accordingly, the Court declines to
reach the parties’ arguments as to this issue.
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer is overruled. Defendant to file and serve her
answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC within 30 days.