  Case Number:  22CHCV01440    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51
Date: 4/10/24
Case
#22CHCV01440
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

APRIL 9, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DEPOSITION TESTIMONY

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV01440

 
Motions filed: 11/14/23, 12/1/23, 2/7/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Kirk Dietrich Mullins
(“Plaintiff”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Jose Armando Priego;
and West Coast Arborists, Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”) 
NOTICE: ok¿¿ 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Orders compelling further
deposition testimony from deponents Jose Armando Priego, Alejandro Priego, and
Clemente Priego regarding the contents of certain incident reports concerning
the subject incident. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions in the total
amount of $6,270.00.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The
Court rules as follows:
·        
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Jose Armando Priego is denied.
·        
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Alejandro Priego is denied.
·        
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Clemente Priego is granted as to Questions 4 and 5 and denied as
to the remaining questions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action in
which Plaintiff alleges that on 6/1/22, he was injured when a commercial truck
operated by defendant Jose Armando Priego (“Jose”) collided with Plaintiff’s
motorcycle at the intersection of Del Monte Drive and Park View Road in the
City of Santa Clarita. (Compl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff alleges that at the time of the
subject incident, Jose was acting in the course and scope of his employment
with defendant West Coast Arborists, Inc. (“WCA”). (Id.
at ¶ 6.) Non-party deponent Alejandro Priego (“Alejandro”) was a
co-employee and passenger in the truck during the subject incident. Non-party
deponent Clemente Priego (“Clemente”) was a WCA foreman who was driving in a
separate vehicle ahead of Jose during the subject incident.
 
On 12/19/22, Plaintiff filed his
complaint, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Negligence/Negligence
Per Se; and (2) Statutory Liability. On 2/15/23, Defendants filed their answers.
 
On 8/24/23,
defendant Jose’s deposition was taken. On 9/20/23, non-party deponent
Alejandro’s deposition was taken. On 11/8/23, non-party deponent Clemente’s
deposition was taken. At each deposition, Defendants’ counsel objected to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s questions concerning the contents of written incident
reports each witness created following the subject incident, on the bases of
attorney-client and attorney work product privileges.
 
On 11/14/23, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to compel Jose’s further deposition testimony. On 12/1/23,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Alejandro’s further deposition
testimony. On 2/7/24, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Clemente’s
further deposition testimony. On 3/6/24 and 3/27/24, Defendants filed their
oppositions. On 3/13/24 and 4/3/24, Plaintiff filed his replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Motion to Compel
Deposition Testimony
 
Discovery is relevant if it is
admissible as evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action.” (Ibid.) “If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480,
subd. (a).) 
            
1.      Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deponent’s answer
must “be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id.
at subd. (b).) Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 10/20/23, she sent
Defendants’ counsel a meet and confer letter in an attempt to resolve the
instant dispute. (Decl. of Gizem Gures ¶ 5.) On 10/25/23, Defendants’ counsel
responded to Plaintiffs’ counsel; however, the parties were unable to
informally resolve the dispute. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Accordingly, the Court
finds that counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (b).
 
2.      Defendants’ Objections
 
“Deponents [should] not be prevented
by counsel from answering a question unless it pertains to privileged
matters or deposing counsel’s conduct has reached a stage where suspension
is warranted.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015 [emphasis added].)
“Whenever a privilege is claimed on the ground that the matter sought to be
disclosed is a communication made in the course of the lawyer-client …
relationship, the communication is presumed to have been made in confidence and
the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof to establish
that the communication was not confidential.” (Behunin v. Superior Court
(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 833, 844.)
 
a.      
Incident Report
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that during each
deposition, Defendants’ counsel improperly advised each witness not to answer
Plaintiff’s attorney’s questions regarding incident reports created in
connection with the subject incident. Plaintiff argues that under Stewart,
it was improper for Defendants’ counsel to instruct each deponent not to answer
Plaintiff’s counsel’s questions regarding incident reports they created. Plaintiff
contends that each deponent’s “willful failure to provide responsive
answers during his deposition and sweeping proclamations of privilege with zero
preliminary facts to support their position is in direct contravention of
applicable rules of law.” (Pl.’s Mot. re Alejandro 3:8–11.)
 
Defendants argue in opposition that “the
sought-after testimony is privileged as it involves a statement that a company
employee was required to provide to his company, which was given to Risk
Management for forwarding to WCA’s attorneys.” (Def.’s Opp. re
Alejandro 4:24–27.) Additionally, as Defendants note, here, the objections were
in fact based on the attorney-client and attorney work product privileges and
are therefore proper under Stewart.
 
Defendants
argue that the subject incident reports are privileged because they were created
at WCA’s direction in accordance with its policies and procedures to direct
such reports to WCA’s attorneys. “Communications made by an insured to his
liability insurance company, concerning an event which may be made the basis of
a claim against him covered by the policy, is a privileged communication, as
being between attorney and client, if the policy requires the company to defend
him through its attorney, and the communication is intended for the information
or assistance of the attorney in so defending him.” (Scripps Health v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 529, 535 [internal
quotations omitted].) “When the corporate employer has more than one purpose in
requiring the report, the dominant purpose will control.” (Id. at 533; see also Sierra
Vista Hospital v. Superior Court for San Luis Obispo County (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 359, 367.)
 
In
Scripps, the Court of Appeal found that hospital occurrence reports were
protected by the attorney-client privilege where the hospital “was
self-insured, maintained in-house counsel, required completion of the
confidential occurrence reports for the purpose of attorney review and intended
the reports to be confidential.” (109 Cal.App.4th at 534.) In Sierra Vista, the Court of Appeal similarly held that an incident report made by the
defendant hospital’s director of nursing services and its administrator, which
was sent to the hospital’s insurer for the purpose of preparing to defend the hospital
in event a lawsuit should be filed by the plaintiff patient, was protected from
discovery by the attorney-client privilege. (248 Cal.App.2d at 369.)
 
In
Sierra Vista, the Court of Appeal elaborated that “where
the employee’s connection with the matter grows out of his employment to the
extent that his report or statement is required in the ordinary course of the
corporation’s business, the employee is no longer an independent witness, and
his statement or report is that of the employer … If, in the case of the
employee last mentioned, the employer requires (by standing rule or otherwise)
that the employee make a report, the privilege of that report is to be
determined by the employer’s purpose in requiring the same; that is to say, if
the employer directs the making of the report for confidential transmittal to
its attorney, the communication may be privileged.” (Id. at 367, quoting D. I.
Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court of City and County of San Francisco (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723.) 
 
However,
“it is the intent of the person from whom the information emanates that
originally governs its confidentiality (and hence its privilege); thus where
the employee who has not been expressly directed by his employer to make a
statement, does not know that his statement is sought on a confidential basis
(or knowing that fact does not intend it to be confidential), the intent of the
party receiving and transmitting that statement cannot control the question of
privilege.” (Ibid.) “Unless the insurance carrier (or its
agent) has advised the employer that the employee’s statement is to be obtained
and used in such manner, it cannot be said that the corporation intended the
statement to be made as a confidential communication from client to attorney.”
(Id. at 368.)
 
Here,
in relying on Scripps and Sierra Vista, Defendants
proffer the sworn declaration of Ernesto Macias, WCA’s Vice President of Risk
Management and Labor Relations, stating the following:
“WCA requires its employees to provide
written statements and prepare an incident report when an incident occurs that
may lead to a claim against WCA. The written statements and incident reports
are used by Risk Management, WCA’s counsel, WCA’s insurance carrier(s), and the
carrier’s agent, third-party litigation claim administrators to evaluate,
assess, discuss, make further inquiries, if necessary, including through email
and telephonic communications, and take other actions in the event the incident
is made the basis of a claim against WCA. All post-incident communications
related to an incident, including the written statements and incident reports
obtained and prepared in the Mullins Case, are intended to be confidential. The
Risk Management Department maintains the written statements and incident
reports in the event a claim made against WCA, which are provided to WCA’s
counsel, WCA’s insurance carrier(s), and the carrier’s agent, third-party
litigation claim administrators, when a claim is made against WCA. Only Risk
Management, WCA’s counsel, WCA’s insurance carrier(s), and the carrier’s agent,
third-party litigation claim administrators, are given access to the written
statements and incident reports.” (Decl. of Ernesto Macias ¶
3.)
 
Plaintiff
argues on reply that the instant case is distinguishable from Scripps and Sierra Vista because here, “the witnesses were instructed post-incident
to write on blank paper with no explicit purpose outlined.” (Pl.’s Reply
4:4–5.) Plaintiff further argues that while the incident reports may now be
used by WCA’s Risk Management, counsel, and their insurance carrier for
litigation purposes, their dominant purpose at the time they were created was
to prevent future accidents and promote safety. (Id. at 4:10–5:7, citing Ex
2. To Pl.’s Mot re Alejandro, 55:16–20.)
 
Plaintiff
asserts that none of the subject incident reports are subject to protection
under the attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine because:
“(1) there was no attorney present when [the witness] filled out either report,
(2) [the witness] was specifically asked to prepare both reports for the
purpose of documenting his own observations of the subject collision, (3) [the
witness] was not told by either his supervisor/uncle that the information was
being gathered in preparation for litigation or for the purpose of providing it
to an attorney, (4) [the witness] had no information regarding any lawsuits
pertaining to the subject collision when he filled out both reports, (4)
nothing on the form [the witness] filled out on his uncle’s cell phone or the
paper [he] was given to fill out the second report indicated that the reports
were confidential or that they were prepared to be transmitted to an attorney,
insurance company or for any other legal purpose.” (Pl.’s Mot. re Jose
11:18–12:2; Pl.’s Mot re Alejandro, 12:3–13.)
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court agrees with Defendants that the facts of the
instant case are analogous to those in Scripps and Sierra
Vista. Here, while Defendants do not claim to be self-insured, WCA’s Vice President of Risk Management and
Labor Relations states in his sworn declaration that the subject incident
reports were created in the ordinary course of business for the sole purpose of
risk management in the event that a claim for liability is brought against WCA.
(Macias Decl. ¶¶ 3–4.) The Court finds the proffered evidence sufficient to show that the dominant
purpose of the subject incident reports was for litigation, and therefore the
attorney-client privilege applies to protect the contents of the reports from
discovery. “When the facts, or reasonable inferences from the facts, shown in
support of or in opposition to the claim of privilege are in conflict, the
determination of whether the evidence supports one conclusion or the other is for
the trial court, and a reviewing court may not disturb such finding if there is
any substantial evidence to support it.” (Sierra Vista, 248 Cal.App.2d
at 364.)
 
Accordingly, the motions to compel
further testimony about the contents of the subject incident reports are denied.
 
b.     
Legal Contentions
 
As to deponent Clemente, Defendants’
counsel further instructed the witness not to answer Plaintiff’s counsel’s
questions regarding whether anyone at WCA told Clemente that Jose was at fault
for the subject collision. Defendants’ counsel objected and instructed Clemente
not to answer under Rifkind v. Superior Court (1994) 22
Cal.App.4th 1255. In Rifkind, the Court of Appeal held that deposition
questions may ask a deponent about the basis for, or information about, factual
conclusions or assertions, but not the basis for a legal conclusion.
 
“If a deponent says that a certain event happened at a
particular time or place, it is quite proper to ask the person, at deposition,
how he or she became aware of it, his or her knowledge about it, and for
similar information of a factual nature.” (Rifkind, 22 Cal.App.4th
at 1259.) However, in contrast, deposition questions that call for a witness’
legal contentions are improper because “legal contention questions require the
party interrogated to make a ‘law-to-fact application that is beyond the
competence of most lay persons.’ … Even if such questions may be characterized
as not calling for a legal opinion … or as presenting a mixed question of law
and fact … their basic vice when used at a deposition is that they are unfair.
They call upon the deponent to sort out the factual material in the case
according to specific legal contentions, and to do this by memory and on the
spot. There is no legitimate reason to put the deponent to that exercise. If
the deposing party wants to know facts, it can ask for facts; if it wants to
know what the adverse party is contending, or how it rationalizes the facts as
supporting a contention, it may ask that question in an interrogatory.” (Id.
at 1262.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel asked, “Did the company find
Jose at fault, only if you know?” and “Did anyone at the company tell you that
Jose was at fault for the collision?” (Ex. 6 to Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. re Clemente.)
Plaintiff argues that Rifkind does not apply here because each “question
did not call upon the witness to sort out the factual material in the case
according to specific legal contentions.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. re Clemente
5:12–14.)
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that each disputed
question “does require Mr. Priego apply a disputed factual contention (i.e.:
the company’s particular findings) to a disputed legal contention (i.e.: the
question of fault). The subject question clearly probes at a disputed legal
conclusion (i.e.: that Jose was at fault for the collision) by asking about
facts that could form the basis of such a contention (i.e.: whether anyone
spoke to Mr. Priego.)” (Defs.’ Resp. to Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. re Clemente 20:5–9.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that “questions about
what the witness was told, the substance of communications, the deponent’s
personal understanding or recollection of communications and/or events, are all
proper lines of inquiry.” (Pl.’s Reply re Clemente 8:13–15.) Here, the disputed
deposition questions do not ask Clemente to draw his own legal conclusions
about whether Jose was at fault for the subject collision, but whether he was
told as such by anyone from WCA. Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Clemente’s further deposition testimony to Questions 4 and 5.
 
c.      
Communications with
Interpreter
 
As to deponent Clemente, Defendants’
counsel further instructed the witness not to answer Plaintiff’s counsel’s
questions regarding the contents of Clemente’s conversations with Defendants’
counsel, WCA’s risk manager, and an independent interpreter during a break at
the deposition. (Ex. 7 to Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. re Clemente.) Defendants’
counsel instructed the witness not to answer based on the attorney-client
privilege.
 
Plaintiff asserts that the attorney-client “privilege
was lost when the interpreter, an independent third party hired by the
Plaintiff, who was not an agent or representative of Defendant or his counsel,
was present. Including an independent third party in the conversation made it
so there was no expectation of privacy. There is no attorney-client privilege
when an independent third party is included in a conversation and there is no
expectation of privacy.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt. re Clemente 6:7–11.)
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails
to cite to any legal authority in support of the above contentions. (Defs.’
Opp. re Clemente 16:20.) Defendants assert that “§ 952 of the California
Evidence Code includes a carveout for disclosure to third persons to whom
disclosure is reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information.” (Id.
at 16:22–24, citing Evid. Code § 952.) Defendant argues that therefore, “section
952 protects the hallway conversation because the interpreter’s services were
reasonably necessary to facilitate communication between Defendants’ counsel
and the representative of his client.” (Id. at 17:5–7.) The Court
agrees, and notes that Plaintiff does not address this issue on reply.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Clemente’s communications with Defendants’ attorney, in the presence of an
independent interpreter, are protected by the attorney-client privilege.
Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Clemente’s further
deposition testimony to Questions 6 through 8.
 
B.    
Sanctions
 
If the Court grants a motion to compel deposition
testimony, it “shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (j).)
Additionally, “the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff requests monetary
sanctions in the total amount of $6,270.00 to be imposed against the deponents
and Defendants’ counsel. While the Court denies the instant motions in part, it
finds the imposition of sanctions to be unjust because each party appears to
have substantial justification for making and opposing the motion. Accordingly,
the Court declines to issue monetary sanctions against either party.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
Court rules as follows:
·        
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Jose Armando Priego is denied.
·        
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Alejandro Priego is denied.
·        
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition
Testimony of Clemente Priego is granted as to Questions 4 and 5 and denied as
to the remaining questions.