  Case Number:  22TRCV01267    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 May 2, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01267
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Anthony Hall v. Creative 1 Works, et al. 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Specially Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, in pro per, Anthony Hall  
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Quash Service 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.  The evidence
before the Court fails to show that Chris Brown has been properly served with
the lawsuit papers.  Delivery of suit
papers to a lawyer who does transactional legal work for Mr. Brown is not
sufficient on the record presented here. 

 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On November 17, 2022, Plaintiff,
Anthony Hall filed, in pro per, a Complaint against Defendants, Creative 1
Works, Amani Walker, Roberto Appling, Robert White, Robert Daniels, Freddie
Rome, and DOES 1 through 20. On November 18, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint. On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint.
On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint. On November 13,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”)which has the following
Defendants listed: Creative 1 Works, LLC, Right Now Productions, LLC, Estate of
Richard Lawrence Grobel, Brett M. Rubin, Aaron Joseph Bolden aka Imani Walker,
Rober White, Robert Appling, Derek Bolden, Robert Daniels, Freddie D. Rhone,
Pharrell Williams, Robin Thicke, Aubry Drake Grham aka Drake, Bruno Mars, Chris
Brown, Justin Bieber, Ahmad Balshe aka Belly, and DOES 1 through 20. 
 
            The 4AC alleges causes of action
for: (1) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4) Tort of Another. 
 
Specially
Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown, now seeks to quash Service of Summons and the
Complaint. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
March 19, 2024, Specially Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown, filed this Motion
to Quash. On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 4, 2024,
Specially Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown, filed a reply brief. 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
“When a defendant
challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service
of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) A
proof of service containing a declaration from a registered process server
invokes a presumption of valid service.  (See¿American Express
Centurion Bank v. Zara¿(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; see also Evid. Code
§ 647.) This presumption is rebuttable. (See¿id.) The party seeking to
defeat service of process must present sufficient evidence to show that the
service did not take place as stated. (See Palm Property Investments, LLC v.
Yadegar¿(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1428; cf.¿People v. Chavez¿(1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1483 [“If some fact be presumed, the opponent of that fact
bears the burden of producing or going forward with evidence sufficient to
overcome or rebut the presumed fact.”].) Merely denying service took place
without more is insufficient to overcome the presumption.  (See¿Yadegar,
supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 1428.)  
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Specially Appearing Party, Chris Brown
(“Brown”) moves on the grounds that he argues this Court should quash
Plaintiff’s service on Brown as it was facially defective and the proof of
service shows that Plaintiff failed to satisfy the stringent procedural
requirements for substitute service upon an individual. Specifically, Brown
argues that Plaintiff’s attempted substitute service was ineffective for the
following two reasons: (1) the proof of service Plaintiff filed on behalf of
Brown fails to demonstrate reasonable diligence, and Plaintiff did not attach a
declaration of diligence stating the actions taken to first attempt personal
service or put forth any other evidence of efforts to first effect personal
service directly on Brown; and (2) Matthew Kamen is not Brown’s registered
agent for service, and is merely a transactional attorney that has handled
matters for Brown. (Declaration of Matthew Kamen (“Kamen Decl.”), ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
Here, the proof of service filed by
Plaintiff on February 15, 2024 purports to show that Defendant Brown was served
via substituted service on December 1, 2023. The service of summons further
notes that it was mailed to an address outside of California with return
receipt requested.  The return receipt
appears to show a signature by one Sofia Olsom, but it has no date.
 
Service by mail to a person outside of
California is permitted by Code of Civil Procedure section 415.40. Section
415.40 provides,  
 
“A
summons may be served on a person outside this state in any manner provided by
this article or by sending a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the
person to be served by first-class mail, postage prepaid, requiring a
return receipt. Service of a summons by this form of mail is deemed
complete on the 10th day after such mailing.”  
 
Service by
mail under Section 415.40 requires that the proof of service include “evidence
satisfactory to the court establishing actual delivery to the person to
be served, by a signed receipt or other evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 417.20,
subd. (a).) Service by mail outside of California on a nonresident requires
strict compliance. (Bolkiah v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 984,
1000.)  Here, the Plaintiff’s proof of service as to Defendant Chris Brown
is signed by Reggie Varnado together with a certified mail receipt dated
November 21, 2023 and an undated signature on the green return receipt bearing
the name of Sofia Olsom, for an envelope addressed to Matthew Kamen.  Mr. Kamen in turn filed a declaration in
support of the motion to quash indicating he is not Chris Brown’s registered
agent for service but conceding that he is a lawyer in New York who handles transactional
matters for Mr. Brown.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20
governs the service of process in lieu of personal delivery. Section 415.20(a)
states: “[i]n lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the summons and complaint
to the person to be served…a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the
summons and complaint during usual office hours in his or her office or, if no
physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing address, other than a
United States Postal Service post office box, with the person who is apparently
in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and
complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at
the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415(a).) Under California law, the plaintiff bears the burden of
showing that he or she demonstrated reasonable diligence at direct service
before substitute service is permitted. (Falco v. Nissan North America Inc.(2013)
987 F.Supp.3d 1071.) 
 
In lieu of filing an opposition brief,
Plaintiff has filed a “Responsive Declaration” noting that he has had some
problems serving some defendants because of lack of proper addresses. He notes
that he was also unable to find a registered agent for service through the
Secretary of State’s website for Defendant Brown.   Plaintiff’s declaration also states he was
able to find an address for Chris Brown through the internet and hired the
Sherriff’s Department in New York to serve the summons and complaint on the
person shown on his Internet search to be Defendant Brown’s agent.   His declaration attaches a Sheriff’s
Certificate of Attempted Service showing that a New York Deputy Sheriff
attempted service on Chris Brown, and that the Deputy contacted attorney
Matthew Kamen who advised service of process for Chris Brown was not being
accepted at the 57th Street address in New York City for Kamen’s law
firm.
 
Plaintiff contends that the Sherriff’s
Department in New York provided him with Matthew Kamen as the attorney that he
should contact regarding the service of the documents. Plaintiff’s declaration
further states that his friend, Reggye Varnado contacted the office of Matthew
Kamen and was told to send the documents to them for service.  Mr. Varnado’s declaration in turn shows that
he spoke to Sofia several times about service of legal papers on attorney Kamen,
that Sofia told him that “Matt” [Kamen] would accept service of the legal
papers, so he mailed them to Mr. Kamen. 
 
The Court finds that it does not have
personal jurisdiction over Defendant Brown as service was not made in a Code-compliant
way. Plaintiff’s “Responsive Declaration” essentially proves this.  There is no showing of any effort to serve
Chris Brown himself, nor is there any proof of a registered or designated agent
for Chris Brown as to whom any effort to serve the lawsuit papers has been
made.  
 
Thus, Brown’s Motion to Quash service of
summons is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 