


[1]Plaintiff asserts
that “[t]here is no reason for why he would tell Devin’s father that he needs
to rule out ‘scoliosis’ as a diagnosis, if he had already diagnosed Devin with
scoliosis on March 8, 2021. In reality, the only reasonable explanation is that
Dr. Emel had never told Devin or anyone in his family that Devin had scoliosis
and, therefore, did not tell Devin’s father that he had previously diagnosed
Devin with scoliosis – the very thing that Devin’s father expressed concern
about.” (Reply at p. 4:21-25.) 

 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



DEVIN ESTIME, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH
  PLAN, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV06517




Hearing
  Date:


January
   26, 2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER REPONSES AND COMPLIANCE REGARDING DEFENDANT SOUTHERN
  CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP’S RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $18,796.25; 
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT ENRIQUE EARLE EMEL, M.D.’S FURTHER DISCOVERY
  RESPONSES; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $7,846



 
Background
Plaintiffs Devin Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, Arti Bhimani, Michel Estime, and Arti Bhimani filed this action on
February 22, 2022 against a number of defendants. On May 26, 2022, Plaintiff Devin Estime,
a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Arti Bhimani (“Plaintiff”)
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (“SCPMG”) and Enrique Earle Emel, M.D. (“Emel”)
(jointly, “Defendants”). The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) negligence,
and (2) unfair business practices.  
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that he “entrusted DEFENDANTS to care
for him. DEFENDANTS failed its duty to [Plaintiff]. DEFENDANTS failed to adhere
to standard protocols for the diagnosis and treatment of [Plaintiff’s]
scoliosis, thereby forcing [Plaintiff] to take the drastic measure of
undergoing immediate and very painful spinal surgery. As a result of
DEFENDANTS’ negligence, [Plaintiff] endured pain and suffering and must contend
with lifelong complications concerning his spine. DEFENDANTS’ failure to diagnose
[Plaintiff] is due to its unlawful and unfair business practice that rewards
doctors that do not refer patients to specialist and for additional extensive
tests, such as x-rays, MRIs, and CT-Scans.” (FAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff now moves for an order compelling SCPMG to serve further
responses and produce documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 2, 19, 20, 21, 41, and 42, and for an
order compelling SCPMG to comply with its response to Request for Production
No. 6 and its response to Amended Request for Production No. 39. SCPMG opposes.

Plaintiff also moves for an order compelling Emel to produce all
documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, Numbers 18 and 19, and to produce complete responses to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Numbers 28 and 31. Emel opposes.  
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court denies Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice file in support of Plaintiff’s reply to SCPMG’s
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)
 
 
Discussion 
A.   
SCPMG Motion 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (a) permits a propounding party to move for an order
compelling a further response to a demand for inspection if the propounding
party deems that a statement of compliance is incomplete, a representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection is
without merit or too general. ((Id., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection must set forth specific facts showing good
cause for the discovery sought and must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b).)  
If the court finds that a party has
unsuccessfully made or opposed such a motion, the court “shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (h).) 
In addition, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.320, subdivision (a), “[i]f a party filing a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling under Sections
2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance.” Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320, subdivision (b), “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision (d), the
court shall impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 

On August 11, 2022, Plaintiff served Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, on SCPMG. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) On October 5, 2022,
SCPMG served its Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One.
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.) On August 31, 2023, SCPMG served its Supplemental
Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One. (Ganesan Decl., ¶
10, Ex. G.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n July 11, 2023, [he] sent an
email to Thomas Bradford, counsel for SCPMG, providing the Amended Request for
Production of Documents, No. 39, pursuant to the agreement that was made
between counsel and the Court at the informal discovery conference (‘IDC’) held
on June 27 and 28, 2023.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E.) On August 17, 2023,
SCPMG served its Response to Plaintiff’s Amended Request for Production Number
39. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n June 27 and 28, 2023, Mr.
Bradford and I participated in an IDC with the Court regarding Defendants’
insufficient responses to Plaintiff’s discovery.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 23.) The
Court’s June 28, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference re: the issues set
forth in their IDC Statements. The parties agreed to further discuss the issues
and approaches identified at the IDC in a telephone conference on June 29, 2023
at 2:00p.m. which will be initiated by Mr. Braddford. [sic] The parties will
agree to any hearing extensions for motions regarding unresolved issues, if
any.”
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “on August 16 and 22, 2022, Mr.
Bradford began to inform me of what responses Defendants will and will not
supplement. Among the documents Defendants refused to produce were those sought
by Requests for Production Nos. 2, 19, 20, 21, 41, and 42…The parties…conferred
further via email through August 28, 2023.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiff’s
counsel further states that “SCPMG has stated that is [sic] will produce
documents responsive to Amended Requests for Production No. 39, but to date has
not done so.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 19.) 
            As set forth above, Plaintiff moves
“for an order compelling [SCPMG] to serve further responses and produce
documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, Nos. 2, 19, 20, 21, 41, and 42, and for an order compelling SCPMG to
comply with its response to Request for Production No. 6 and its response to
Amended Request for Production No. 39.” 
            Requests Nos. 2, 41, and 42
            Plaintiff’s Request No. 2 seeks “All
DOCUMENTS which YOU identified in YOUR answers to PLAINTIFF’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) In its response to
Request No. 2, SCPMG states, “[s]ubject to and without waiving said objections,
patient records coming two formats. The most recent records are maintained in
the Kaiser Permanente HealthConnect electronic medical record. A complete copy
of the PLAINTIFF’S medical records are herein sent electronically (Exhibit A).
Prior to the implementation of the Kaiser Permanente HealthConnect, medical
records were maintained in paper charts. Copies of the paper medical records
may be obtained at the compounding parties expense from Ronson Photocopy Inc.
(909) 594-5995, or through the propounding parties own copy service. Defendant
objects to the production of Dr. Emel’s personnel and payroll records on
privacy grounds and Dr. Emel’s objection to the production of same.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.) 
Plaintiff’s Request No. 41 seeks “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT
position(s) held by EMEL for each year EMEL worked for YOU, including as a
PRIMARY CARE PROVIDER and as one of YOUR shareholders.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. A.) Plaintiff’s Request No. 42 seeks “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT any
compensation EMEL received from YOU for each year EMEL worked for YOU,
including but not limited to any income, bonuses, dividends, shareholder
income, and payment for satisfying FINANCIAL INCENTIVEs, but excluding
reimbursement of expenses.” (Ibid.) In its
responses to Requests No. 41 and 42, SCPMG states, inter alia,
“[o]bjection as vague, ambiguous, overbroad, burdensome, harassing, not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, and
violative of EMEL’s privacy rights.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.)
In the motion, Plaintiff asserts that “[a] party’s confidentiality is
not a valid objection—the proper procedure is to address privacy concerns is a
protective order.” (Mot. at p. 7:13-14.) In support of this assertion,
Plaintiff cites to Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 23, where the Court of Appeal noted that “Defendants further
object to this interrogatory on the ground that it calls for ‘confidential
information.’ We know of no case holding that this is a proper ground for
objection to an otherwise proper interrogatory. Assuming that the
information called for by this interrogatory is of a confidential nature which
defendants do not want to have included in a public record, they presumably
could have applied for a protective order under section
2019, subdivision (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure. No such
application was made.” 
But
SCPMG objected to Requests Nos. 2, 41, and 42 on, inter alia, privacy
grounds, not on the grounds of “confidentiality.” In the opposition, SCPMG
asserts that “Dr. Emel has a right to privacy as it relates to his compensation
and personnel file.” (Opp’n at p. 13:7-8.)  
SCPMG cites to Valley Bank of Nev. v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652,
656, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[a]
constitutional amendment adopted in 1974 elevated the right of privacy to an
‘inalienable right’ expressly protected by force of constitutional
mandate. ((Cal.
Const., art. I, § 1.) Although the amendment is new and its scope as yet is neither
carefully defined nor analyzed by the courts, we may safely assume that the
right of privacy extends to one’s confidential financial affairs as well as to
the details of one’s personal life.” Emel further cites to
Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal. App. 4th 1412, 1423-1424, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “if the three criteria for
invasion of a privacy interest exist—a legally protected privacy interest, a
reasonable expectation of privacy under the particular circumstances, and a
serious invasion of the interest—then the privacy interest must be measured
against other competing or countervailing interests in a balancing test.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) 
In
addition, SCPMG cites to Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:320, which
provides, “[t]he party
seeking
discovery must show a particularized need for the confidential information sought. The broad ‘relevancy to
the subject
matter’
standard
is
not
enough here. The court must be convinced that the information is directly relevant to a cause of action or defense,
i.e., that it is essential to determining the truth
of the matters in dispute. [Britt v.
Sup.Ct. (San Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1978) 20 C3d 844, 859-862,
143 CR 695, 704-706; Harris v. Sup.Ct. (Smets)
(1992) 3 CA4th 661, 665, 4 CR2d 564, 567 (citing text) (disapproved on other
grounds by Williams v. Sup.Ct. (Marshalls of CA, LLC) (2017) 3
C5th 531, 557, 220 CR3d 472, 494 & fn. 8)].” (Emphasis omitted.)
SCPMG
asserts that “Plaintiff failed to demonstrate a compelling need for this
information…” (Opp’n at p. 11:18-19.) SCPMG asserts that “it remains unclear
how Dr. Emel’s compensation will help establish the Unfair Business Practices claims
against SCPMG. On the other hand, Dr. Emel has a right to privacy as it relates
to his compensation and personnel file.” (Opp’n at p. 13:6-8.) In the motion,
Plaintiff argues that “the information sought is relevant in that would make it
more or less likely that Plaintiff can establish his allegations that Dr. Emel
received incentives or other benefits/rewards from SCPMG for delaying
diagnostic testing and avoiding referring his patients to specialists.” (Mot.
at p. 7:26-8:1.) 
The
Court notes that in the second cause of action for unfair business practices,
Plaintiff alleges that “KAISER has a policy of financially rewarding its
doctors who avoid ordering expensive tests such as MRIs, X-rays, and CT
scans…or treatment options such as extensive physical therapy sessions…and who
avoid referrals to specialists…when treating member patients (‘the Policy).”
(FAC, ¶ 47.) Plaintiff alleges that “EMEL as a doctor at KAISER, was persuaded
by the Policy to avoid informing [Plaintiff] and ARTI that he noticed
[Plaintiff] showing signs of lumbar scoliosis on March 8, 2021, because he knew
that based on her vigilant interest in her son’s health, ARTI would have
demanded an X-Ray at least to verify that diagnosis and that at a minimum
physical therapy treatment may be recommended. If EMEL ordered the X-Ray,
recommended physical therapy, or referred [Plaintiff] to a specialist, his
financial reward under the Policy would have been diminished.” (FAC, ¶ 50.) 
But
Plaintiff’s discovery requests at issue do not specifically seek information
regarding any financial rewards Emel purportedly received under the alleged
Policy. Rather, as set forth above, Plaintiff’s Request No. 41 seeks “All
DOCUMENTS that REFLECT position(s) held by EMEL for each year EMEL worked for
YOU, including as a PRIMARY CARE PROVIDER and as one of YOUR shareholders.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) In addition, Plaintiff’s Request No. 42 broadly
seeks “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT any compensation EMEL received from YOU
for each year EMEL worked for YOU, including but not limited to any income,
bonuses, dividends, shareholder income, and payment for satisfying FINANCIAL
INCENTIVEs, but excluding reimbursement of expenses.” (Ibid.,
emphasis added.) 
The
Court thus finds that there is merit to SCPMG’s objections on the basis of
overbreadth, relevance, and privacy. Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion
for an order
compelling further responses to Requests Nos. 2, 41, and 42. 
Requests Nos. 19, 20, and 21
            Plaintiff’s Request No. 19 seeks
“[a]ll DOCUMENTS sufficient to show the number of MINORS diagnosed with
scoliosis by doctors employed by YOU between January 1, 2015 and the present.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) In its response to Request No. 19, SCPMG states
that “Defendant objects to this request as vague, ambiguous, overbroad, and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. It is
burdensome and harassing. Finally, it violates the privacy rights of
third-party patients not subject to this litigation.” (See Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G.) In its supplemental response to Plaintiff’s Request No.
19, SCPMG states, “[t]he above objections are incorporated by reference.
Defendant will not be providing supplemental response. As a courtesy and to
substantiate the objections, the plaintiff is advised that in the year 2021
alone its physicians diagnosed 2,031 patients with scoliosis. The RFP seeks
nearly 8 years of documents. Therefore, Defendant stands by its prior
objections.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s Request No. 20 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS sufficient to show
the number of MINORS diagnosed with scoliosis by doctors employed by YOU that
were provided with a REFERRAL to see a SPECIALIST between January 1, 2015 and
the present.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) In its response to Request No. 20,
SCPMG states, “Defendant objects to this request as vague, ambiguous,
overbroad, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. It is burdensome and harassing. Finally, it violates the privacy
rights of third-party patients not subject to this litigation.” (Ganesan Decl.,
¶ 10, Ex. G.) In its supplemental response to Plaintiff’s Request No. 20, SCPMG
states, “[t]he above objections are incorporated by reference. Defendant will
not be providing supplemental response. As a courtesy and to substantiate the
objections, the plaintiff is advised that in the year 2021 alone its physicians
diagnosed 2,031 patients with scoliosis. The RFP seeks nearly 8 years of
documents. Therefore, Defendant stands by its prior objections.” (Ibid.)
 Plaintiff’s Request No. 21
seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS sufficient to show the number of MINORS diagnosed with
scoliosis by doctors employed by YOU for whom the doctors ordered x-ray of
their spines between January 1, 2015 and the present.” In its response to
Plaintiff’s Request No. 21, SCPMG states, “Defendant objects to this request as
vague, ambiguous, overbroad, and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. It is burdensome and harassing. Finally, it
violates the privacy rights of third-party patients not subject to this
litigation.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G.) In its supplemental response to
Plaintiff’s Request No. 21, SCPMG states, “[t]he above objections are
incorporated by reference. Defendant will not be providing supplemental
response. As a courtesy and to substantiate the objections, the plaintiff is
advised that in the year 2021 alone its physicians diagnosed 2,031 patients
with scoliosis. The RFP seeks nearly 8 years of documents. Therefore, Defendant
stands by its prior objections.” (Ibid)
Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that “[w]ith respect to Requests No. 19,
20, 21, [SCPMG’s counsel] said the only way to respond to these requests is to
review each patient’s records, which would be a HIPPA violation. The parties
continued conferred further via email through August 28, 2023.” (Ganesan Decl.,
¶ 26.) 
In the motion, Plaintiff argues that “SCPMG’s burden and the HIPPA
objections ignores the fact that the documents requested can be obtained and
produced simply by means of computer searches, without any review of individual
patient files.” (Mot. at p. 10:15-18.) Plaintiff submits the declaration of Lee
Neubecker, the “President and CEO of Enigma Forensics, Inc.” (Neubecker Decl.,
¶ 3.) Mr. Neubecker states in his declaration that “Defendant has the ability
to produce the documents requested in Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, Nos. 19 through 21 by performing computer searches in its
EPIC medical records database, without review of individual patient records.”
(Neubecker Decl., ¶ 12.) Mr. Neubecker further states that “[t]o produce the
documents requested in Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set
One, Nos. 19, Defendant can produce a report from its EPIC medical records
database that lists all patients where ‘scoliosis’ was referenced in the patient’s
Diagnosis section on or after 1/1/2015 (e.g. ‘Diagnosis: SCOLIOSIS Noted on:
03/08/2021 Chronic: Yes’).” (Neubecker Decl., ¶ 13.) Mr. Neubecker further
asserts that “[i]n order to produce the documents requested in Requests 20 and
21, Defendant can include in the aforementioned report” certain specified
fields. (Neubecker Decl., ¶ 14.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff submits the declaration of Nitin Dhamija,
M.D. CPPS, CPHQ, who is employed by SCPMG and has “oversight of Kaiser
Permanente’s Electronic Health Record (HealthConnect®) for 2 Southern
California and Georgia Regions.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 23, Ex. W; Dhamija Decl.,
¶¶ 5-6.) In his declaration, Dr. Dhamija states that “[a]s a preliminary
matter, when it comes to non-party data, there is no way to determine why
certain tests/imaging studies have been ordered and specialty referrals made
relative to a particular diagnosis without accessing each individual patient
chart which SCPMG cannot do without the express written consent and
authorization of each minor’s parent or guardian. Otherwise, this would be a
clear violation of HIPAA.” (Dhamija Decl., ¶ 8.)[1] SCPMG
cites to 45
C.F.R. § 164.508, which
provides, inter alia, “[a]uthorization required: General rule. Except as
otherwise permitted or required by this subchapter, a covered entity may not
use or disclose protected health information without an authorization that is
valid under this section. When a covered entity obtains or receives a valid
authorization for its use or disclosure of protected health information, such
use or disclosure must be consistent with such authorization.” (45 C.F.R. § 164.508, subd. (a)(1).) 
Dr. Dhamija further states that “[a]lthough SCPMG is able to determine
inclusion of a particular illness/diagnosis for each patient within a cohort of
patient charts, it is not possible to confirm whether any particular
test/imaging study was ordered for a particular purpose and if a specialty
referral was made without an independent medical review by a qualified medical
provider to verify accuracy and completion of the data. Even if this were not
the case, a simple numerical assessment is meaningless. The medical reviewer
would need to analyze the clinical correlation, if any, between the diagnosis,
imaging study, and specialty referral which can only be done by an individual
chart review for each patient...” (Dhamija Decl., ¶ 9.) SCPMG asserts that
“[t]his would be a burdensome task for SCPMG, as it would require obtaining
consent from thousands of patients, and then, it would require SCPMG to devote
an exorbitant number of administrative, informatics, and medical professional
staff to complete the task.” (Opp’n at p. 17:16-18.)
In the reply, Plaintiff argues that “SCPMG’s assertion of burden, that
it would be required to review thousands of individual patients’ records, does
not apply because the database queries requested do not require individual
patient record review. Similarly, querying SCPMG’s EMR database does not reveal
any patient-identifying information that would violate other patients’
confidentiality or would require HIPAA consent.” (Reply at p. 7:20-24.) But as
discussed, SCPMG submits evidence that “when it comes to non-party data, there
is no way to determine why certain tests/imaging studies have been ordered and
specialty referrals made relative to a particular diagnosis without accessing
each individual patient chart which SCPMG cannot do without the express written
consent and authorization of each minor’s parent or guardian.” (Dhamija Decl.,
¶ 8.)
Based on a consideration of the arguments and evidence presented by
the parties, the Court finds that there is merit to SCPMG’s objections on the basis of overbreadth
and privacy. Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion as to Requests Nos. 19,
20, and 21. 
 
 
            Request No. 6 and Amended Request
No. 39
            Plaintiff’s Request No. 6 seeks “PLAINTIFF’S MEDICAL
RECORDS in electronic form, including all metadata.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) SCPMG’s Response to Request No. 6 provides, “[s]ubject to and without
waiving said objections, patient records coming [sic] two formats. The most
recent records are maintained in the Kaiser Permanente HealthConnect electronic
medical record. A complete copy of the PLAINTIFF'S medical records are herein
sent electronically (Exhibit A). Prior to the implementation of the Kaiser
Permanente HealthConnect, medical records were maintained in paper charts.
Copies of the paper medical records may be obtained at the compounding parties
expense from Ronson Photocopy Inc. (909) 594- 5995, or through the propounding
parties own copy service.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.)
            Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n October 5, 2022,
SCPMG produced Plaintiff’s Medical Records in pdf format. I immediately wrote
to Mr. Bradford reminding him that all metadata was requested in electronic
form, and requested for the audit trail related to the Medical Records.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that “[o]n October 11,
2022, Mr. Bradford forwarded me an audit trail, again in pdf format,” and that
“[o]n December 16, 2022, Mr. Bradford forwarded me a revised Audit Trail, again
in pdf format.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶¶ 13, 15.) Plaintiff’s counsel further states
that “on January 11, 2023, Mr. Bradford’s associate, Jeanie Raphelt, emailed me
a read-only version of a document purporting to be an audit trail, but this
time in excel format. I reminded…Ms. Raphelt that we were still awaiting the
medical records with the full metadata. Ms. Raphelt wrote to me stating ‘Per
Kaiser, you have been provided the metadata through the audit trail and there
is no other format in which the medical records can be produced.’” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 16.) 
            Plaintiff’s expert, Mr. Neubecker, asserts that “[t]he
medical records of Devin Estime produced by Defendant in this matter are
incomplete because they are missing: a. data from some date ranges; b. certain
file types; and c. some of the associated metadata that exists in Defendant’s
medical records database.” (Neubecker Decl., ¶ 6; see also Neubecker
Decl., ¶ 7.)
            As an initial matter, SCPMG’s counsel states that “[o]n
June 27, 2023, and June 28, 2023, this Court held an Informal Discovery
Conference with regard to SCPMG’s and Defendant, Dr. Erique Earle Emel’s,
discovery responses. Plaintiff never raised an issue with Defendants’ responses
to her request for medical records or meta-data with the Court as part of her
Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 12, Exs. M-N.) In the
reply, Plaintiff acknowledges that “[a]lthough SCPMG is technically correct
that the incomplete audit trail regarding Plaintiff’s medical records was not
discussed at the parties’ Informal Discovery Conference (‘IDC’), that was only
because Plaintiff only learned of the incompleteness subsequent to the IDC.”
(Reply at p. 4, fn. 1.) Thus, pursuant to the Court’s power to “amend and control its process and
orders so as to make them conform to law and justice” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(8)), the Court finds that a further IDC
on this issue is necessary. 
            Plaintiff’s Amended Request No. 39 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS
reflecting any guidelines, instructions, and/or policies enacted by YOU between
January 1, 2015 and the present as to when and/or under what circumstance(s)
diagnostic tests including, but not limited to, X-rays, MRIs, and CT-Scans, may
be ordered by YOUR PRIMARY CARE PROVIDERS for YOUR members[.]” (Ganesan Decl.,
¶ 8, Ex. E.) SCPMG’s response to Amended Request No. 39 states, “Defendant will
comply with this request and will produce documents it can identify and locate
that are responsive to this request. Discovery is ongoing and Defendant
reserves the right to supplement the response.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “SCPMG has stated that is will produce
documents responsive to Amended Requests for Production No. 39, but to date has
not done so.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 19.) 
            In the opposition, SCPMG asserts that “SCPMG has no
guidelines for its doctors as to when they can order diagnostic tests and/or
refer patients to specialists.” (Opp’n at p. 20:13-14.) SCPMG refers to the “Declaration
of Blaine Yanabu in support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary
Adjudication.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. V.) Mr. Yanabu, “a Managing Director
of SCPMG Internal Audit,” states that “Southern California Permanente Medical
Group does not have a policy of monetary compensation for doctors based on the
number, or lack thereof, of tests ordered, referrals made, or treatments
prescribed.” (Yanabu Decl., ¶¶ 2, 11.) 
            But as set forth above, Plaintiff’s Amended Request No.
39 seeks “[a]ll DOCUMENTS reflecting any guidelines, instructions, and/or
policies enacted by YOU between January 1, 2015 and the present as to when
and/or under what circumstance(s) diagnostic tests including, but not limited
to, X-rays, MRIs, and CT-Scans, may be ordered by YOUR PRIMARY CARE PROVIDERS
for YOUR members[.]” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E.) SCPMG’s response to Amended
Request No. 39 states, “Defendant will comply with this request and will
produce documents it can identify and locate that are responsive to this
request. Discovery is ongoing and Defendant reserves the right to supplement
the response.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F.) SCPMG does not appear to provide
evidence demonstrating that it did so.  
            As set forth above, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320,
subdivision (a), “[i]f
a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling…thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding
party may move for an order compelling compliance.” Based on the foregoing, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion as to Amended Request No. 39. 
            Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he Court should impose
monetary sanctions on SCPMG for its unjustified refusal to produce responsive
documents.” (Mot. at p. 14:1-2.) The Court finds that the parties both acted with substantial justification in presenting their
positions and thus declines to award monetary sanctions. 
B.   
Emel Motion 
As
set forth above, Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, subdivision (a) permits a propounding party to move for an order
compelling a further response to a demand for inspection if the propounding
party deems that a statement of compliance is incomplete, a representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an objection is
without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (a).) A motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection must set forth specific facts showing good cause for the discovery
sought and must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b).)  
In
addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300,
subdivision (a)¿ permits a
propounding party to move for an order compelling a further response to an
interrogatory if the propounding party deems that an answer is “evasive or
incomplete” or that an objection is “without merit or too general.” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)¿.) ¿Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.220¿ requires that
each answer to an interrogatory must be as “complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a)¿.)¿A motion
under ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a)¿ must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1)¿.) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction…against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
In his declaration in
support of the motion, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n August 11,
2022, my office served Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, on Dr.
Emel,” and that “[a]lso on August 11, 2022, my office served Special
Interrogatories, Set One, on Dr. Emel…” (Ganesan Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. A-B.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states that on October 5, 2022, Emel served his Responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One as well as his Responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One. (Ganesan Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, Exs.
C-D.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n June 27 and 28, 2023, Mr.
Bradford and I participated in an IDC with the Court regarding Defendants’
insufficient responses to Plaintiff’s discovery. At the IDC, Mr. Bradford
agreed that he would consult with his clients and obtain additional documents
and information, and depending on his findings, supplement Defendants’
responses accordingly.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that
“on August 22, 2023, Mr. Bradford informed me what responses Defendants will
and will not supplement. Among the documents/information Defendants refused to
supplement/produce were those sought by Requests for Production Nos. 18 and 19,
and Special Interrogatories, Nos. 28 and 31. The parties…conferred further via
email on August 22 through August 28, 2023. Despite this extensive conferral,
Defendants continued to refuse to produce any further documents.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 15.)
As set forth above,
Plaintiff moves “for an order compelling [Emel] to produce all documents
responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One,
Numbers 18 and 19, and to produce complete responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Numbers 28 and 31.”
Requests Nos. 18 and 19 and Special Interrogatories Nos. 28 and 31
Plaintiff’s Request No. 18 seeks “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT YOUR
position at KAISER for each year YOU worked at KAISER, including as a PRIMARY
CARE PROVIDER and as a shareholder at KAISER.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)
Emel’s response to Request No. 18 provides, inter alia, that “Defendant
objects to this request as irrelevant and unlikely to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence, overbroad in time and scope, burdensome and harassing,
vague and ambiguous as to ‘REFLECT YOUR position,’ ‘worked at KAISER,’ and
‘shareholder at KAISER’ so as to render the request unintelligible. Respondent
further objects to this request as violating his privacy rights without a
compelling need.” (Ganesan Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. C.) 
Plaintiff’s Request No. 19 seeks “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT any
compensation YOU received from KAISER for each year YOU worked at KAISER,
including but not limited to any income, bonuses, dividends, shareholder
income, and payment for satisfying FINANCIAL INCENTIVEs, but excluding
reimbursement of expenses.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Emel’s response to
Request No. 19 provides, inter alia, that “Respondent objects to this
request as irrelevant and unlikely to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, overbroad in time and scope, burdensome and harassing, vague and
ambiguous as to ‘REFLECT YOUR position,’ ‘worked at KAISER,’ and ‘shareholder
at KAISER’ so as to render the request unintelligible. Respondent further
objects to this request as violating his privacy rights without a compelling
need.” (Ganesan Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. C.)
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 28
provides, “IDENTIFY every position YOU have held at KAISER and the base
salary YOU received from KAISER for each position.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Emel’s response to Special
Interrogatory No. 28 provides, “Physician. Defendant objects to this the
disclosure of base salary as being in violation of his privacy rights.”
(Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.) Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatory No. 31
provides, “For each year YOU worked at KAISER, IDENTIFY all amounts YOU
received from KAISER excluding reimbursement of expenses.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. B.) Emel’s response to Special Interrogatory No.
31 provides, “Objection as violative of Defendant’s right [sic] privacy.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.)
Plaintiff asserts that the information sought in Request Nos. 18 is
relevant, as it would “make it more or less likely that Plaintiff can establish
his allegations that Defendant incentivized its doctors to delay diagnostic
testing for scoliosis and referring its patients to specialists to treat this
condition, and that Defendant Emel was so incentivized. As a shareholder
Defendant received dividends from the profits earned by SCPMG. Lower costs from
minimal diagnostic testing and retention of only a handful of specialists
equates to higher profits to be shared amongst SCPMG’s members.” (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement at pp. 2:20-25.) Plaintiff similarly argues that the
information sought in Request No. 19 is relevant because it would “make it more
or less likely that Plaintiff can establish his allegations that Defendant
SCPMG incentivized its doctors to delay diagnostic testing for scoliosis and
referring its patients to specialists to treat this condition, and that
Defendant Emel was so incentivized.” (Id. at p.
3:25-27.) 
Plaintiff also argues that Emel’s privacy objections are without
merit. Plaintiff again argues that “[a] party’s confidentiality is not a valid
objection—the proper procedure to address privacy concerns is a protective
order,” citing to Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County, supra, 263 Cal.App.2d 12. But SCPMG’s objected to Requests Nos. 18 and 19 and
Special Interrogatories Nos. 28 and 31 on, inter alia, privacy grounds,
not on the grounds of “confidentiality.”
In the opposition, Emel asserts that his personnel file is subject to
his right to privacy. As discussed above, Emel cites to Valley Bank of Nev. v. Superior
Court, supra, 15 Cal.3d at page 656, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[a] constitutional amendment adopted in 1974 elevated the
right of privacy to an ‘inalienable right’ expressly protected by force of
constitutional mandate. ((Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Although the amendment is new and its scope as
yet is neither carefully defined nor analyzed by the courts, we may safely
assume that the right of privacy extends to one’s confidential financial
affairs as well as to the details of one’s personal life.”
Emel further cites to Alch v. Superior Court, supra, 165 Cal. App. 4th at pages
1423-1424, where the Court of Appeal noted that “if the three criteria for invasion of a privacy interest
exist—a legally protected privacy interest, a reasonable expectation of privacy
under the particular circumstances, and a serious invasion of the interest—then
the privacy interest must be measured against other competing or countervailing
interests in a balancing test.” (Internal quotations omitted.) 
Emel argues that “Plaintiff bears the
burden to identify and articulate a compelling interest to justify these
requests and justify infringement into Dr. Emel’s right to privacy when it
comes to his compensation. Plaintiff has failed to justify a compelling need
for Dr. Emel’s payroll information. Certainly, this information is irrelevant
to Plaintiff’s claim of Medical Malpractice for alleged misdiagnoses of
scoliosis in March 2021.” (Opp’n at pp. 6:28-7:3.)[2] 
Emel also argues that his “payroll
information is irrelevant to the claim for Unfair Business Practices as alleged
against SCPMG. It is unclear how Dr. Emel’s payroll information will help prove
that SCPMG incentivizes its doctors not to order diagnostic testing and/or
refer its members to specialists.” (Opp’n at p. 5:18-21.). In the reply,
Plaintiff argues that “Dr. Emel’s personnel and payroll records would show
whether Dr. Emel had received promotions, commendations, bonuses, or other
employer action that could be related to his conduct in diagnosing (or not)
those conditions.” (Reply at p. 3:14-16.) 
But Plaintiff does not specifically seek this information here.
Rather, Plaintiff broadly seeks “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT YOUR position at
KAISER for each year YOU worked at KAISER, including as a PRIMARY CARE PROVIDER
and as a shareholder at KAISER,” as well as “All DOCUMENTS that REFLECT any
compensation YOU received from KAISER for each year YOU worked at KAISER,
including but not limited to any income, bonuses, dividends, shareholder
income, and payment for satisfying FINANCIAL INCENTIVEs, but excluding
reimbursement of expenses.” (See Requests Nos. 18 and 19.) In addition, Plaintiff broadly requests that Emel “IDENTIFY
every position YOU have held at KAISER and the base salary YOU received from
KAISER for each position,” and that
“[f]or each year YOU worked at KAISER, IDENTIFY all amounts YOU
received from KAISER excluding reimbursement of expenses.” (See Special
Interrogatories Nos. 28 and 31.) 
            As set forth above, Plaintiff
alleges that “KAISER has a policy of financially rewarding its doctors who
avoid ordering expensive tests such as MRIs, X-rays, and CT scans…or treatment
options such as extensive physical therapy sessions…and who avoid referrals to
specialists…when treating member patients (“the Policy).” (FAC, ¶ 50.)
Plaintiff’s subject requests and special interrogatories do not specifically
seek information concerning any alleged financial reward obtained by Emel under
the alleged Policy. As noted by Emel, “[t]he party
seeking discovery
must show
a particularized need
for the confidential information
sought. The broad
‘relevancy to the subject
matter’ standard
is not
enough here. The court must be convinced that the information is directly relevant to a cause of action or defense,
i.e., that it is essential to determining the truth
of the matters in dispute. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:320,
citing Britt v. Sup.Ct. (San Diego
Unified Port Dist.) (1978) 20 C3d 844, 859-862, 143 CR 695,
704-706; Harris v. Sup.Ct. (Smets)
(1992) 3 CA4th 661, 665, 4 CR2d 564, 567 (citing text) (disapproved on other
grounds by Williams v. Sup.Ct. (Marshalls of CA, LLC) (2017) 3
C5th 531, 557, 220 CR3d 472, 494 & fn. 8).” (Emphasis omitted.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that there is merit to Emel’s
objections to Requests Nos. 18 and 19 and Special Interrogatories Nos. 28 and
31 on the basis of overbreadth, relevance, and privacy. Thus, the Court denies
the motion to compel further responses to these requests. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to SCPMG is granted in part and denied in part. The Court
grants Plaintiff’s motion for an order compelling SCPMG to comply with
its response to Plaintiff’s Amended Request for Production No. 39. The parties
are ordered to further meet and confer regarding the issues discussed regarding
Request No. 6; if unsuccessful, the parties must participate in a new IDC and
the deadline for moving to compel as to Request No. 6 on the issue discussed is
continued to 45 days after completion of the IDC. Plaintiff’s motion is
otherwise denied. In addition,
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied. 
In addition, based on
the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Emel to produce
all documents responsive to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One, Numbers 18 and 19, and to produce complete responses to Plaintiff’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Numbers 28 and 31. Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is denied. 
Defendants are ordered
to give notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  January 26, 2024                                                    
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


