  Case Number:  22STCV06517    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  50 THERE ARE TWO TENTENTATIVES: 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



DEVIN ESTIME, et al.,  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH
  PLAN, INC., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV06517




Hearing
  Date:


January
   26, 2024




Hearing
  Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
Background
Plaintiffs Devin Estime, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, Arti Bhimani, Michel Estime, and Arti Bhimani filed this action on
February 22, 2022 against a number of defendants. On May 26, 2022, Plaintiff Devin Estime,
a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Arti Bhimani (“Plaintiff”)
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (“SCPMG”) and Enrique Earle Emel, M.D. (“Emel”)
(jointly, “Defendants”). The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) negligence,
and (2) unfair business practices.  
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that “DEFENDANTS failed to adhere to
standard protocols for the diagnosis and treatment of [Plaintiff’s] scoliosis,
thereby forcing [Plaintiff] to take the drastic measure of undergoing immediate
and very painful spinal surgery. As a result of DEFENDANTS’ negligence,
[Plaintiff] endured pain and suffering and must contend with lifelong
complications concerning his spine. DEFENDANTS’ failure to diagnose [Plaintiff]
is due to its unlawful and unfair business practice that rewards doctors that
do not refer patients to specialist and for additional extensive tests, such as
x-rays, MRIs, and CT-Scans.” (FAC, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff now moves “for an order granting Plaintiff leave to amend
his First Amended Complaint to include a prayer for punitive and exemplary
damages and allegations in support thereof against Defendants Southern
California Permanente Medical Group and Enrique Earle Emel, M.D…” Defendants
oppose. 
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1),
“[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper,
allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time
before or after commencement of trial. ((Id., § 576.) “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in
which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” ((Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to
amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….” ((Morgan v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v.
Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments. (¿¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿¿ The motion must
also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page,
paragraph, and line number.  (¿Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd¿. (a).)
Finally, “¿[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1)¿The effect of the amendment; (2)¿Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)¿When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4)¿The reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.¿” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)  
In
addition, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
425.13, subdivision (a), “[i]n any action for damages
arising out of the professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim
for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless
the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim
for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended
pleading and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented
that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that
the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section
3294 of the Civil Code. The court shall not grant a motion allowing the
filing of an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages if the
motion for such an order is not filed within two years after the complaint or
initial pleading is filed or not less than nine months before the date the
matter is first set for trial, whichever is earlier.” 
Plaintiff’s
counsel attaches as Exhibit A to his declaration a copy of
Plaintiff’s proposed Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 3, Ex.
A.) In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel provides a copy of the redlined version of
Plaintiff’s proposed SAC, showing the changes made to the FAC. (Ganesan Decl.,
¶ 4, Ex. B.) In the proposed SAC, Plaintiff seeks to add additional factual
allegations and a prayer for punitive damages. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) Plaintiff
argues that “[t]his case is subject to punitive damages because Dr. Emel
actively concealed Devin’s diagnosis of scoliosis from Devin and his mother,
Arti Bhimani, and misled them as to the cause of the concern they raised about
Devin’s hunched posture at his March 8, 2021 wellness visit.” (Mot. at p. 1:5-8.)

As an initial matter, Defendants assert that the instant motion is
untimely. As set forth above, Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13, subdivision (a) provides that “[t]he
court shall not grant a motion allowing the filing of an amended pleading that
includes a claim for punitive damages if the motion for such an order is not
filed within two years after the complaint or initial pleading is filed or not
less than nine months before the date the matter is first set for trial, whichever
is earlier.” 
The initial Complaint in this action was filed on February 22, 2022.
The instant motion was filed less than two years later, on October 24, 2023. Defendants
state that this matter was initially set for trial on August 22, 2023. (Bradford
Decl., ¶ 4.) The Court notes that on May 9, 2023, a Case Management Conference
was held in this matter. The Court’s May 9, 2023 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “Jury Trial is scheduled for 08/22/23 at 08:30 AM in Department
50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” Defendants assert that because “[t]he
matter was initially set for trial on August 22, 2023,” “[t]his made the
deadline for the motion November 22, 2022.” (Opp’n at p. 9:2-3.) As set forth
above, Plaintiff filed the instant motion after this date, on October 24, 2023.

Plaintiff asserts that the motion is timely. In the motion, Plaintiff
cites to Goodstein v. Superior Court (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th
1635, 1638, where the Court of Appeal found that “[t]his case presents an example of a plaintiff who may not,
due to circumstances beyond her control, be able to comply with the nine-month
time limitation set out in section 425.13. As a
result, it may be necessary in the interest of fairness and justice for the
court to exercise its discretion to relieve the plaintiff from an impossible or
impracticable time limitation. While we hold that a trial court does retain the
discretionary flexibility to make such an order, we cannot determine from the
record whether this case actually presents sufficient facts to warrant such an
exercise of discretion.” The Goodstein Court found as follows: 
 
“If in fact a plaintiff, by virtue
of the quick trial setting practices of ‘fast track’ courts, is placed in
a position where she cannot reasonably comply with the narrow time limits set
out in section 425.13, then surely the court must
retain the inherent power and authority to make an appropriate order to avoid
injustice or unfairness. Given the rationale of Looney and the recognition of Brown that a plaintiff cannot be allowed to
suffer unfairly due to matters beyond his or her control, we have no trouble
holding that the trial court has the power to make such orders as will
reasonably avoid such a result, while at the same time remaining faithful to
the underlying purposes of section 425.13
 
In the context
of the factual circumstances presented by this case, we believe Pittman must be
able to show, in order to be entitled to such relief, that (1) she was unaware
of the facts or evidence necessary to make a proper motion under section 425.13 more than nine months prior to the
first assigned trial date, (2) she made diligent, reasonable and good faith
efforts to discover the necessary facts or evidence to support such a motion
more than nine months prior to the first assigned trial date, (3) after
assignment of the trial date she made reasonable, diligent and good faith
efforts to complete the necessary discovery, (4) she filed her motion under section 425.13 as soon as reasonably practicable after
completing such discovery (but in no event more than two years after the filing
of her initial complaint) and (5)
Goodstein will suffer no surprise or prejudice by reason of any shortened time
period and will be given every reasonable opportunity to complete all necessary
discovery in order to prepare to meet Pittman’s punitive damage allegations.” 
((Id. at p. 1645.) 
Plaintiff asserts that he has met the
foregoing factors. Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff filed his
original complaint against [Defendants] in this case on February 22, 2022…In
addition to the current claims of Negligence and Violations of Business & Professions Code Section 17200, the
original complaint asserted a claim for Gross Negligence and a prayer for
punitive damages against Defendants.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 5.) “The Defendants
were served with the original complaint on April 6, 2022. Thereafter, Thomas
Bradford, Defendants’ counsel, sent [Plaintiff’s counsel] a ‘meet and confer’
email stating, among other things, that Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim was
barred under California Civil Code Section 425.13.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]fter reading the statute, I
realized that Plaintiff’s allegations of active concealment needed to be
substantiated by evidence and testimony, including Dr. Emel’s testimony.
Accordingly, on May 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed its FAC, dropping the Gross
Negligence claim and the prayer for punitive damages.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n August 11, 2022, Plaintiff served
Requests of Production of Documents, Request for Admissions, Special Interrogatories,
and Form Interrogatories on each of the Defendants. Among the Requests for
Production was Plaintiff’s electronic medical records, including all metadata.
After several extension requests, on October 5, 2022, Defendants served their
discovery responses, and produced Plaintiff’s medical records in pdf format.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff’s counsel further states that on
October 19, 2023, he took Emel’s deposition. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[n]o discovery that
SCPMG produced or provided before Dr. Emel’s deposition on October 19, 2023
revealed (1) Dr. Emel’s knowledge of the importance of early detection and
treatment of scoliosis; (2) Dr. Emel’s knowledge that scoliosis cannot be
caused by hunching over when using a cell phone, or treated by holding up a
cell-phone; (3) how after-visit summaries are directly connected with the
diagnoses entered by a physician in a medical chart; and (4) Dr. Emel’s
inability to recall whether he told Plaintiff and Ms. Bhimani about Plaintiff’s
scoliosis diagnosis.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 12.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel further asserts that “Plaintiff
did not take Dr. Emel’s deposition earlier than October 19, 2023 due to several
factors. First, although the parties met and conferred and then sought an IDC
with the Court in October 2022 concerning Defendants refusal to provide
documents and information in response to Plaintiff’s discovery requests, the
earliest available date with Department 32 for an IDC was March 17, 2023, 5
months later. Further, on the eve before the IDC, the case was transferred to
the current department, and the IDC rescheduled for June 27, 2023, two months
before the then-trial date.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel also
states that “Mr. Bradford made it clear to me that he will only allow Dr. Emel
to sit for a deposition one time, to be completed in seven hours. This meant
that Plaintiff would need to have all the documents in hand that he would want
to inquire of Dr. Emel, or else face the additional cost of filing a motion to
compel a second deposition of Dr. Emel. This forced Plaintiff into a position
where he needed to wait to receive all the requested documents in his
possession before taking Dr. Emel’s deposition.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 15.) 
 Plaintiff’s counsel further states
in his declaration that “[o]nce Plaintiff learned on August 28 that Defendants
will not meet their discovery obligations despite the IDC, a week later I
noticed the deposition for Dr. Emel for September 13. Mr. Bradford’s office
informed me one business day before the deposition that Dr. Emel would only be
available on October 10 or 19. I agreed to October 19, since I would only be
returning from vacation on October 16. The deposition took place on that date
and Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend was filed five (5) days later.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 16.) 
In the opposition, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s justifications
as to why the motion was not timely filed lacks merit.” (Opp’n at p. 9:6.) Defendants’
counsel states that “[o]n October 5, 2022, SCPMG served its responses to
Plaintiff’s first set of Request for Production of Documents and produced as
Exhibit A Plaintiff’s medical records from SCPMG.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 6.)
Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs motion heavily relies on the medical records
to establish possible concealment, and the records were available for over a
year, thus the records could not justify the untimely filing.” (Opp’n at p.
9:22-23.) 
In addition, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff argues that Dr. Emel’s
deposition could not have been noticed sooner because of the discovery
disputes. However, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel further discovery responses
against both Defendants is set to be heard on November 3, 2023, and Dr. Emel’s
deposition was taken on October 19, 2023, whilst the discovery disputes were
pending…Therefore, there is no logic to the proposition that Plaintiff was
waiting for the discovery disputes to be resolved before he could notice the
deposition of Dr. Emel.” (Opp’n at p. 10:5-9.) 
In the reply, Plaintiff counters that “Defendants do not deny that
Thomas Bradford, Defendants’ counsel, informed Sridavi Ganesan, Plaintiff’s
counsel, that he would not allow Dr. Emel to sit for his deposition more than
once, which would require Plaintiff to expend attorney fees to move to compel
his deposition if Defendants subsequently produced documents/further discovery
responses. Therefore, Plaintiff was forced to wait until at least after the IDC
to see if Defendants would produce the documents and serve supplemental
responses before scheduling Dr. Emel’s deposition to inquire with him about
those documents.” (Reply at p. 8:13-19.) In his declaration in support of the
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “after the June 27 IDC, and despite
repeated follow-up emails to Mr. Bradford, Mr. Bradford only informed me from
August 22 to 28, 2023 – 2 months after the IDC – that Plaintiff will not
supplement their responses or provide any further production that Plaintiff
wanted before taking Dr. Emel’s deposition, such as Dr. Emel’s personnel files
and SCPMG’s guidelines for when diagnostic tests such as X-Rays or MRIs are
recommended.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]nce
Plaintiff learned on August 28 that Defendants will not meet their discovery
obligations despite the IDC, a week later I noticed the deposition for Dr. Emel
for September 13. Mr. Bradford’s office informed me one business day before the
deposition that Dr. Emel would only be available on October 10 or 19. I agreed
to October 19, since I would only be returning from vacation on October 16. The
deposition took place on that date and Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend
was filed five (5) days later.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 16.)  
In the opposition, Defendants also assert that they were “not on
notice of the claim for punitive damages.” (Opp’n at p. 10:18.) But Defendants
acknowledge that Plaintiff’s initial Complaint included a claim for punitive
damages. (Opp’n at p. 10:19-21.) In addition, as set forth above, Plaintiff’s
counsel states that “[t]he Defendants were served with the original complaint
on April 6, 2022. Thereafter, Thomas Bradford, Defendants’ counsel, sent [Plaintiff’s
counsel] a ‘meet and confer’ email stating, among other things, that
Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim was barred under California
Civil Code Section 425.13.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel also states that “[o]n March 2, 2023, I caused
Plaintiff’s IDC statement to be filed with the Court. In that statement, I
expressed Plaintiff’s intent to file a motion for punitive damages.” (See
Ganesan Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. F, p. 2, “Plaintiff intends to bring a motion to amend
complaint to include a prayer for punitive damages.”) In the opposition,
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff also claims that Defendants were on notice
because Plaintiff’s Informal Discovery Conference statement referenced the
potential claim for punitive damages…However, adding a sentence alluding to
potentially bringing forth a prayer for punitive damages is insufficient and
does not provide sufficient notice to Defendants.” (Opp’n at pp. 10:27-11:2.)
But Defendants do not cite any legal authority in support of this proposition
or explain why they were not aware of Plaintiff’s potential claim for punitive
damages as a result of Plaintiff’s IDC Statement.
Defendants also argue that they will be prejudiced if Plaintiffs
motion is granted. Defendants assert that “Plaintiff filed the motion untimely
despite having access to the medical records that formed the basis for this
motion. Moreover, Plaintiff could have deposed Dr. Emel at any time but did not
do so until October 19, 2023. Lastly, Plaintiff claims that the delay is caused
by ongoing discovery disputes, whilst knowing that these disputes are still
pending. This is an inexcusable delay and will prejudice the Defendant, thus
the motion should be denied.” (Opp’n at p. 14:28-5:4.) But as noted by
Plaintiff, Defendants do not explain how they would purportedly be prejudiced
if the motion is granted.  
Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated that it is in the interest
of fairness and justice for the Court to exercise its discretion to relieve
Plaintiff from the time limitation set forth in Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.13. ((Goodstein v. Superior Court, supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at p. 1638.) 
Plaintiff
asserts that he presents sufficient evidence warranting the imposition of
punitive damages against Defendants. As discussed, “[t]he court may allow the filing of an amended pleading
claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading
and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented that the
plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section
3294 of the Civil Code.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a).) 
Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]n an action for the breach
of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” 
As used in Civil Code section 3294, “malice” means “conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).) In
addition, as used in Civil Code section 3294, “oppression”
means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship
in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) 
            Plaintiff asserts that “[t]his Motion is
being brought on the grounds that during the course of discovery, Plaintiff –
Defendants’ medical patient – learned that Defendants acted with conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s safety and well-being, amounting to malice and
oppression as defined in Civil Code section 3294.”
(Mot. at p. 1:15-17.) 
            In Looney v. Superior Court (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th
521, 538-539, cited by Plaintiff, the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“Petitioners, in effect, argue that
section 425.13 is unconstitutional because the
substantial probability of success standard which it imposes upon them requires
the demonstration of a winning case. While that may be one reasonable
construction of the statutory language, it is not the only one. Section 425.13 may also be reasonably construed to
require only that a plaintiff demonstrate the existence of sufficient evidence
to establish a prima facie case for punitive damages, having in mind the higher
clear and convincing standard of proof. In discharge of our obligation to adopt
that construction which is consistent rather than inconsistent with
constitutionality, we believe the latter interpretation is the proper one.
 
We therefore conclude that, in
the words of the Hung court, it is only
necessary that plaintiff provide ‘a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable decision if the evidence submitted by the
[plaintiff] is credited.’ ( Hung v. Wang, supra, 8 Cal.App.4th at p. 931.) The trial court is not
required to make any factual determination or to become involved in any
weighing process beyond that necessarily involved in deciding whether a prima
facie case for punitive damages exists. Once the court concludes that such a
case can be presented at trial it must permit the proposed amended pleading to
be filed. If it concludes that no such case exists, then it
properly rejects the proposed pleading amendment. In making this judgment, the
trial court’s consideration of the defendant’s opposing affidavits does not
permit a weighing of them against the plaintiff’s supporting evidence, but only
a determination that they do or do not, as a matter of law, defeat that
evidence.” (Emphasis omitted.)  
            In the motion, Plaintiff first
asserts that Emel “actively concealed the diagnosis of lumbar scoliosis from
Plaintiff and his mother.” (Mot. at p. 9:13-14.) Plaintiff’s
counsel attaches as “Exhibit E” to his declaration “copies of relevant pages
from the Medical Records produced by Defendants.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E.) Plaintiff’s
Exhibit E references as “Diagnosis #9” “SCOLIOSIS” next to “Yes,” the date
“03/08/2021,” and the time “1326.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 159.) In
addition, under the term “ASSESSMENT,” on Plaintiff’s Exhibit E, several items
are listed, including “LUMBAR SCOLIOSIS - appears mild [EE.5M].” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 164.)
Plaintiff’s guardian
ad litem, Arti
L. Bhimani, states in her supporting declaration that “[o]n March 8, 2021, I
accompanied my son, Devin, to an annual wellness visit with pediatrician Dr.
Enrique Earle Emel (‘Dr. Emel’).” (Bhimani Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Bhimani states that
“[a]t no point in time did Dr. Emel ever inform me during the March 8, 2021
visit or anytime prior to July 14, 2021 that Devin suffered from lumbar
scoliosis, or any form of scoliosis.” (Bhimani Decl., ¶ 8.) Ms. Bhimani
contends in her declaration that “Dr. Emel actively misled me about Devin’s
diagnosis. Not only did Dr. Emel not inform me or Devin that Devin had
scoliosis, Dr. Emel filled out Devin’s Preparticipation Physical Evaluation,
which was required for Devin to participate in sports, and indicated within the
evaluation that Devin’s Back was ‘NORMAL’. This was in addition to telling us
that the posture issues I raised were due to Devin’s cell phone use.” (Bhimani
Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel also states that “a review of the Medical
Records do not show that Dr. Emel ever contacted Plaintiff or his parents to
inform them of his diagnosis of Plaintiff’s scoliosis between March 8, 2021 and
July 14, 2021.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 18.) 
            Plaintiff also asserts that “Dr. Emel
failed to tell Devin’s father, Michel Estime, on July 14, 2021 when Devin’s
father raised a concern about Devin’s back that Devin had previously been
diagnosed with scoliosis. Instead, he told Devin’s father that he needed to
‘rule out’ scoliosis, in an effort to conceal the fact that he had in fact
diagnosed Devin with scoliosis four months prior.” (Mot. at p. 2:15-18.)
Plaintiff notes that the subject medical records show that on July 14, 2021,
Plaintiff’s father sent a message to Emel stating, “I recently looked at
Devin’s back and am concerned about whether he has scoliosis and whether we
need to do anything to try to correct it as he is growing. Wondering if you
looked at this at his last physical or whether I should make another
appointment for him concerning it.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 253.)
Plaintiff notes that the medical records contain notes dated July 19, 2021,
providing, inter alia, “PERSON W FEARED COMPLAINT, NO DIAGNOSIS MADE
Note: rule out[EE.1T] Scoliosis[EE.1M].” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 262.)[1]
            In addition, Plaintiff asserts that
“the concealment is evident from the fact that Dr. Emel delayed entering
‘scoliosis’ amongst the ‘DIAGNOSIS’ and ‘ASSESSMENT’ entries until after
Plaintiff and Ms. Bhimani left the March 8, 2021 appointment.” (Mot. at p.
10:10-12.) Ms. Bhimani states that “Devin’s entire wellness appointment took a
little less than one hour. My appointment time was 11:00 a.m., and we left the
appointment around 12:00 p.m.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 7.)
As set forth above, Plaintiff’s Exhibit E references as “Diagnosis #9”
“SCOLIOSIS” next to “Yes,” the date “03/08/2021,” and the time “1326.” (Ganesan
Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 159.) In addition, under the term “ASSESSMENT,” on
Plaintiff’s Exhibit E, several items are listed, including “LUMBAR SCOLIOSIS -
appears mild [EE.5M].” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 164.) Plaintiff asserts
that the “Attribution Key” found on page 165 of the medical records show that
the “LUMBAR SCOLIOSIS” entry was made at about 1:23 p.m. (Mot. at p. 4:15-16.)
The “Attribution Key” references “EE.5 - Emel, Erique Earle (M.D.), M.D. on
3/8/2021 1:23 PM.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 165.) 
Plaintiff asserts that the other diagnoses and assessments were “made
at or around the time of Plaintiff’s appointment, between 11am and noon.” (Mot.
at p. 4:18-19, citing Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, pp. 159, 164, 165.) Certain
other diagnoses listed on pages 158-159 of Plaintiff’s Exhibit E appear to be
made between the times of “1158” and “1213.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, pp.
158-159.) In addition, the other items listed under the “Attribution Key” on
page 165 of Exhibit E lists times between “11:25 AM” and “12:12 PM” before the
above-referenced entry for “EE.5” at “1:23 PM.” (Id.
at p. 165.) 
In the opposition, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff failed to prove
the theory of active concealment.” (Opp’n at p. 12:1.) Defendants assert that
“Dr. Emel testified that in general, he strives to finish the medical records
during the appointment; however, sometimes he finishes the note after the
patient leaves.” (Opp’n at p. 12:12-13.) Defendants cite the following
testimony from Emel’s deposition: “Q…Is it your practice to update the
patient’s medical record close to the time -- close in time to the patient’s
actual visit? A. What do you mean ‘update’? Q. Enter information on the
patient’s medical records. A. You mean document on the medical record? Q.
Correct. A. Usually it’s the same day. Q. Do you do it in real time? A. Yes. Q.
Meaning while the patient’s there, are you also entering information in the
medical records? A. Yes.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. I (Emel Depo.) at p. 126:1-17.)
Defendants also cite the following testimony from Emel’s deposition: “Q. Okay.
So is there any circumstance when you have information that you’re inputting
into the medical record, but you do it not at the time when the patient’s there
but after the patient has left? A. You mean do I write in the chart after the
patient has left? Q Yes. A. Yes. Q. What are those circumstances when you would
do that? A. It varies clinically.” (Id. at p.
127:14-25.) 
Defendants also cite the following testimony from Emel’s deposition:
“Q. Okay. Do you recall whether you informed Devin and his mother of your
assessment? A. Q. I don’t recall. Q. Do you recall whether you provided any
information or an after-care summary about the condition that you had assessed?
A. I don’t recall, but that’s my general practice.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 15, Ex.
I (Emel Depo.) at p. 135:7-15.) Defendants thus do not appear to dispute Ms.
Bhimani’s statement that “[a]t no point in time did Dr. Emel ever inform me
during the March 8, 2021 visit or anytime prior to July 14, 2021 that Devin
suffered from lumbar scoliosis, or any form of scoliosis.” (Bhimani Decl., ¶
8.) 
            Plaintiff also asserts in the motion
that “Dr. Emel acted with wanton disregard for Devin’s health and safety
because he knew that early detection and treatment of scoliosis was important
to prevent the progression of a scoliosis curve, and despite that knowledge,
actively hid from Devin and his family Devin’s diagnosis, thereby depriving
Devin of more conservative treatment options that would have been available to
Devin at that time.” (Mot. at p. 12:13-17.) 
Plaintiff cites to the following testimony from Emel’s deposition: “Q.
Okay. But otherwise your testimony is that early detection and treatment in an
adolescent is important to prevent it from getting worse? A. It is important to
observe it, yes. Q. To prevent it from getting worse? A. As far as it getting
worse, it depends on the type of person. It depends on their particular
condition whether it’s going to get worse or not. Not all scoliosis get worse.”
(Ganesan Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. J (Emel Depo.) at p. 94:12-21.) 
In addition, as set forth above, under the term “ASSESSMENT,” on
Plaintiff’s Exhibit E, several items are listed, including “LUMBAR SCOLIOSIS -
appears mild [EE.5M].” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 164.) Plaintiff asserts
that “Mr. Emel told Plaintiff and Ms. Bhimani that Devin’s posture issue that
was raised as a concern by Ms. Bhimani was caused by Devin hunching over when
using his cell phone, even though he knew that scoliosis cannot be caused that
way, and cannot be corrected by holding up one’s phone.” (Mot. at pp.
11:27-12:3.) 
In her declaration, Ms. Bhimani states, “[a]fter examining Devin, Dr.
Emel told me that Devin’s ‘hunch’ was likely due to his bending over to view
his cellphone…” (Bhimani Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff also cites to Emel’s responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One. (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. I.)
Plaintiff’s Request No. 13 states, “Admit that YOU told PLAINTIFF’s mother on
March 8, 2021 that the concerns she raised with respect to PLAINTIFF’s posture
were due to his cell phone usage.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. I, p. 5.) Emel’s
response to Request No. 13 states that “Admit that in addition to advising
PLAINTIFF’s mother that PLAINTIFF had mild scoliosis, she was advised that
PLAINTIFF’S cell phone usage can impact posture.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff also cites to the following testimony from Emel’s deposition: “Q.
Based on your training, can idiopathic adolescent scoliosis be caused by
hunching when one is using their phone? A. Not that I’m aware of. Q. Okay.
Based on your training and medical school education, can idiopathic adolescent
scoliosis be treated by holding up one’s phone when using it? A. Not that I’m
aware of.” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. J (Emel Depo.) at p. 106:1-9.) 
            Plaintiff also asserts that “despite
knowing that early detection is necessary to treat scoliosis, rather than
inform Plaintiff to monitor Devin’s curve and if it worsens, Dr. Emel only
provided ‘reassurance’ and told Plaintiff to return after two years for his
wellness visit.” (Mot. at p. 12:4-6.) In Plaintiff’s Exhibit E, under “LUMBAR
SCOLIOSIS - appears mild[EE.5M],” the document states “Plan:
-reassurance.[EE.5T].” (Ganesan Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. E, p. 164.) Exhibit E also
states “Return to clinic for check-up in 2 year(s).” (Id.
at p. 165.) 
Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Dr. Zacharia Reda, a medical
doctor that is board certified in pediatrics, critical care, and hospital
medicine. (Reda Decl., ¶ 1.) Dr. Reda states that “[t]he medical records make
clear that Dr. Emel was aware that Devin was suffering from lumbar scoliosis
and yet the medical records do not provide any evidence that Dr. Emel did
anything to assess the degree of Devin’s curvature or address Devin’s scoliosis
- not even informing the patient of the diagnosis or observed curvature. There
is no justification that can be provided for failing to inform the patient of a
diagnosis known by the doctor, particularly where, as here, the diagnosis
concerns an issue specifically raised by the patient’s parent during the
wellness visit. Here, contrary to Dr. Emel’s obligation to provide the patient
with known information about a diagnosis, Dr. Emel appears to have misinformed
Devin and his mother that the cause of Devin’s ‘hunch’ was the use of his cell
phone in a misguided attempt to reassure Devin and his mother that there was no
cause for concern.” (Reda Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Dr. Reda also states that “[a] pediatrician that notices a curvature
of the spine during an annual visit of an adolescent should at the very least
inform the patient of the curvature and seek to monitor the progression of the
curve. Informing the patient to return in two years is not consistent with the
recommended course of treatment.” (Reda Decl., ¶ 13.) In addition, Dr. Reda
states that “[a] pediatrician that notices a curve in adolescents should take
steps to address the curve given that an adolescent’s growth spurt could
exacerbate the curve, and that may lead to adverse health consequences and
deformity if left untreated. There are treatment options that are available for
scoliosis that has not yet reached the surgical range, including physical therapy
and bracing, that can be explored. A pediatrician can refer a patient to a
specialist who can provide treatment options for scoliosis to prevent or slow
down the progression of an adolescent’s curve during their prime growth
period.” (Reda Decl., ¶ 14.) 
            In the opposition, Defendants cite the
following testimony from Emel’s deposition: “Q. Yes. So for lumbar scoliosis
you think that it’s appropriate for the next time that the patient to come in
would be in two years? A. No. What you’re showing there is just for a general
physical exam.” (Bradford Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. I (Emel Depo.) at p. 187:13-18.) Defendants
assert that there is not “clear and convincing evidence that Dr. Emel acted
with wanton disregard for the well-being of Plaintiff, at most it is a standard
of care violation.” (Opp’n at p. 13:25-27.)
            However, based on a consideration of
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff “has
established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the
Civil Code.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a).)
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
is granted. The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve the proposed Second Amended Complaint within 3 days of the
date of this Order.¿ 
Plaintiff is to provide notice of
this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  January 26, 2024                                                    
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


