 Case Number:  24STCV01850    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MOE MOSTASHARI, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CALIFORNIA COMMERCE CLUB, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
         


 Case No: 
  24STCV01850
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 21, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Defendant California Commerce Club, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves
the Court for an order compelling Plaintiff Moe Mostashari (“Plaintiff”) to
arbitrate his claims against Defendant and staying this action.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
and STAYS this action pending the outcome of arbitration.  The Court sets a status conference re
arbitration for December 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Background
 
            This
is an employment case. Plaintiff was employed by Defendant for approximately 38
years until his termination. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant discriminated
against him, harassed him, denied him pay, and eventually terminated him in
retaliation for whistleblowing.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on January 24, 2024. The operative complaint is now the First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises claims for (1) retaliation under Labor
Code, section 1102.5; (2) retaliation under FEHA; (3) wrongful termination; (4)
breach of contract; (5) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(6) discrimination (race and age); (7) discrimination (failure to fairly
compensate and promote); (8) harassment; (9) failure to prevent harassment and
retaliation; (10) fraudulent concealment; (11) intentional misrepresentation;
(12) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) (13) negligence;
(14) negligent misrepresentation; and (15) violation of Business and
Professions Code, section 17200 et seq.
 
            Defendant
moved to compel arbitration on February 6, 2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition
and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Discussion
 
The Arbitration Provisions
 
The parties executed two arbitration agreements during his
employment: one in 2009 as part of his general employment contract (the
“Employment Agreement”) and one in 2015 (the “2015 Agreement”).
 
The 2015 Agreement provides that all claims relating to
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant must be submitted to binding arbitration
with JAMS.
 
The Employee Agreement provides that any controversy that
Plaintiff or Defendant may assert against the other shall be subject to binding
arbitration with JAMS.
 
 
Applicable Agreement
 
Plaintiff argues that it is the Employment Agreement, and
not the 2015 Agreement, that is the applicable agreement because the Employment
Agreement provided that it was fully integrated could not be modified except in
writing. However, the 2015 Agreement is a contract in writing between the
parties, and thus functions as a modification of the parties’ employment
agreement.
 
Unconscionability
 
“‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability]
must both be present in order for a court to exercise its
discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.’ [Citation] But they need not be present in the same degree.
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.” [Citation] In other words, the more substantively oppressive
the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is
required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (Armendariz).)
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues that the 2015 Agreement is substantively unconscionable
because it requires Plaintiff to pay some costs associated with arbitration. 
 
“[W]hen an employer imposes mandatory arbitration as a
condition of employment, the arbitration agreement or arbitration process
cannot generally require the employee to bear any type of expense that the
employee would not be required to bear if he or she were free to bring the
action in court.” (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
110-111.)
 
Here, both agreements provide that Plaintiff shall not be
required to pay any costs in excess of what he would have to pay in court, and
that those excesses shall be paid by Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the agreements only subject claims
that would be brought by an employee, and not an employer, to arbitration.
However, the agreements do not list those claims as a limitations, but rather
as inclusions. Thus, the general applicability to disputes still applies and
covers claims the employer could bring.
 
Plaintiff argues that the 2009 Employee Agreement is
unconscionable because it contains a clause for prevailing party attorney’s
fees, which could grant Defendant attorney’s fees against a plaintiff in
broader circumstances than permitted by FEHA. However, because the 2015
Agreement modified the Employee Agreement, this clause is no longer in place.
 
Because the agreement is not substantively unconscionable,
Plaintiff cannot show general unconscionability, which requires a showing of
both procedural and substantive unconscionability.
 
            The
Court therefore grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stays this
action pending the outcome of arbitration.