

Hearing Date:             October 24, 2024    
Case Name:                 Nataly Consuelo v. Lyneer
Staffing Solutions, LLC, et al.
Case
No.:                    22STCV07064
Motion:                       Motion
for summary judgment or, in the alternative, motion for summary adjudication

Moving
Parties:          Defendants Fashion
Logistics, Inc. and Franco Vago L.A. Inc.

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Nataly Consuelo


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion for Summary
Judgment on the Complaint is granted for Defendants Fashion Logistics and
Franco Vago.
 

 
This action arises under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA)(Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) 
 
On February 25, 2022, Plaintiff
Nataly Consuelo (Plaintiff) filed the instant action against Defendants Fashion
Logistics, Inc. (Fashion Logistics), Franco Vago L.A. Inc. (Franco Vago),
(collectively Defendants), Lyneer Staffing Solutions, LLC (Lyneer), Employers
HR LLC, Franco Vago SpA, Nippon Express Italia SpA, Joseph Perez (Perez[1]),
and Jose Arciniega (Arciniega). Plaintiff alleges Lyneer, Fashion Logistics,
and Franco Vago subjected her to severe harassment on the basis of race,
disability, and sex. 
 
Defendants’ evidence – including
video footage of the events in question and Plaintiff’s own duplicitous text
messages to her former husband – demonstrate that Plaintiff’s Complaint and
Declaration are substantially untrue. Plaintiff has failed to offer admissible
evidence to raise a dispute of material fact. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
Procedural background
 
Plaintiff alleges fourteen (14)
causes of action under FEHA and the common law: 
 
1.    
Illegal Harassment and Failure to Protect from such in
violation of FEHA;
2.    
Illegal Discrimination and Failure to Protect from such
in violation of FEHA;
3.    
Illegal Retaliation and Failure to Protect from such in
violation of the FEHA;
4.    
Illegal Failure and Refusal to Provide a Timely, Good
Faith, Interactive Process in violation of FEHA;
5.    
Illegal Failure and Refusal to Provide a reasonable
accommodation in violation of FEHA;
6.    
Wrongful Constructive Discharge in violation of FEHA;
7.    
Violation of Whistleblower Protection under Labor Code
sections 6310, 6311, and 6400; 
8.    
Violation of Whistleblower Protection under Labor Code
section 1102.5;
9.    
Wrongful Adverse Employment Actions in violation of Public
Policy;
10.  Intentional
Infliction of Severe Emotional Distress;
11.  Willful
Misconduct;
12.  Sexual
Assault/Battery under Civil Code section 1708.5 and Civil Procedure Code section
340.16;
13.  Gender Violence under Civil Code section
52.4; and 
14.  Violation
of the Unfair Business Practices Act.
 
Plaintiff alleges that Perez and
Arciniega, were her manager and supervisor, respectively, forced Plaintiff to
go to a bar with them and then proceeded to drug, threaten, and rape her on
March 6, 2020.
 
On October 2, 2022, Fashion
Logistics filed an Answer. On June 12, 2023, Franco Vago filed an Answer.
 
On July 30, 2024, Defendants filed
the instant motion for summary judgment on all causes of action or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a declaration opposing the motion for summary judgment. On October 9,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the instant motion. As Defendants point
out, Plaintiff’s papers are procedurally defective.  Defendants objected to Plaintiff’s declaration
and filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Issues
 
1.    
Defendant’s Objections
 
Defendants object to the
Declaration of Nataly Consuelo. 
 
The Court has reviewed and
considered each objection interposed by Defendant. The Court sustains General
Objections 1 and 2, and all 172 specific objections. Plaintiff’s declaration is
completely inadmissible for multiple reasons, including the lack of a certified
translation, complete failure to demonstrate personal knowledge to many
assertions, and hearsay. Plaintiff’s separate statement in opposition to the
motion fails to set forth any disputed facts. Because Plaintiff fails to offer admissible
evidence, she fails to raise any material disputed fact to defeat summary
judgment.
 
2.    
Plaintiff’s Objections
 
Plaintiff makes several objections to
Defendants’ separate statement. Rather than filing a separate document with
specific objections, Plaintiff includes her objections in her responses to
Defendants’ separate statements. “All written objections to evidence must be
served and filed separately from the other papers in support of or in
opposition to the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, 3.1354(b).) “Each written
objection must be numbered consecutively and must: Identify the name of
the document in which the specific material objected to is located; State the
exhibit, title, page, and line number of the material objected to; Quote or set
forth the objectionable statement or material; and State the grounds for each
objection to that statement or material.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
3.1354(b)(1)-(4).) Objections included in a separate statement opposing another
party’s separate statement, violate rule 3.1354(b). (Hodjat v. State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 8 (emphasis
added).)
 
By failing to submit proper
objections, Plaintiff waives her objections and the Court overrules them.
 
Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Defendants’
request for judicial notice of the Pacific Standard Time zone and the Month of
March in 2020.
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.) 
 
The moving party has the initial burden of production to make prima
facie showing the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if he
does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing
of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) A defendant moving for summary judgment may meet its initial
burden by proving that for each action alleged, plaintiff cannot establish at
least one element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s Allegations
 
Plaintiff’s Declaration states she
worked for Fashion Logistics at a warehouse located at 20550 Denken Avenue,
Torrance, CA 90501 (Torrance Warehouse) from December 2019 until March 2020.
(Declaration of Nataly Consuelo [Consuelo Decl.], ¶ 7.) 
 
On March 6, 2020, Plaintiff
remained at the Torrance Warehouse after normal work hours to receive overtime.
(Consuelo Decl., ¶ 20.) Around 5:00 pm, Plaintiff went to a local bar with
Fashion Logistics employee Perez and Franco Vago employee Arciniega. (Consuelo
Decl., ¶ 23.) Arciniega drove to the bar. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 23.) Once at the
bar, Plaintiff alleges that Perez became angry when she began texting her
husband and that Perez took her cell phone away. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 24.) After
they drank several beers, Perez followed Plaintiff to the bar parking lot,
pushed her against Arciniega’s car, and began groping her breasts and buttocks
and penetrating her vagina with his fingers. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 34.) Perez then
forced her into the back of the car, got on top of her, and continued the same
behavior. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 34.) Shortly thereafter, Perez, Plaintiff, and
Arciniega drove back to the Torrance Warehouse. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 34.)
Throughout the drive back, Plaintiff alleges Arciniega, repeatedly slammed the
breaks causing Plaintiff to hit her head. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 25.) 
 
Later that night, Plaintiff vomited
and felt pain between her legs. (Consuelo Decl., ¶ 38.) Plaintiff told her
then-husband, Juan Castaneda, that Perez and Arciniega had sexually assaulted
her that night. (Consuelo Decl., ¶¶ 38-39.) Plaintiff and her then-husband
called the Police, and Plaintiff went to a hospital where a nurse practitioner
examined her injuries and performed a rape kit examination. (Consuelo Decl., ¶
39.) The rape kit found Perez’s DNA only under Plaintiff’s fingernails.
(Consuelo Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
Plaintiff did not return to the
Torrance Warehouse after March 6, 2020. 
 
This summary is set forth to
provide context to the causes of action. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s declaration
is inadmissible.  Even if the Court received
such evidence, it fails to rebut the video showing no evidence of coercion of,
or fear by, Plaintiff in her apparently ebullient after hours drinking session
with Perez, or that she unwillingly left the bar with him hand in hand. Defendants
have presented evidence that demonstrates more likely than not that essential
elements of Plaintiff’s case cannot be established. Plaintiff fails to offer
evidence to contradict Defendants’ evidence.
 
First, Second, and Third Causes of Action under FEHA –
Illegal Harassment, Discrimination, Retaliation, and Failure to Protect.
 
A plaintiff pursuing a FEHA “failure
to prevent harassment” claim, must prove that: (1) plaintiff was an employee of
defendant; (2) plaintiff was subjected to harassment, discrimination, or
retaliation in the course of employment; (3) defendant failed to take all
reasonable steps to prevent harassment, discrimination, or retaliation; (4)
plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant’s failure to take reasonable
preventative steps was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.
(CACI 2527; see also Trujillo v. N. Cty. Transit Dist. (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 280, 286-287.) 
 
1.    
Employer-Employee Relationship
 
First, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff was an employee of Fashion Logistics. It is undisputed that Plaintiff
was not an employee of Franco Vago.
 
To prove that Plaintiff was not an
employee of Franco Vago, Defendants have attached the declarations of William
Magherini, Fashion Logistic’s President and Franco Vago’s President, and
the Declaration of Sheila Mojtehedi, counsel of record for both Defendants.
(Declaration of William Magherini [Magherini Decl.], ¶ 1; Declaration of Shelia
Mojtehedi [Mojtehedi Decl.], ¶ 1.) 
 
Fashion Logistics runs a third-party
logistics services business. (UMFs No. 1; Magherini Decl., ¶ 2.) Lyneer, a temporary
staffing agency, placed Plaintiff with Fashion Logistics as a temporary pack
operator at a warehouse in Torrance (Torrance Warehouse) beginning on February
24, 2020. (Compl., ¶ 5; Undisputed Material Facts [UMFs], No. 7; Magherini
Decl., ¶ 6; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. L, at p. 157.) Fashion Logistics paid
Lyneer for these services. (Magherini Decl., ¶ 4.) Fashion Logistics trains the
pick and pack operators. (UMFs Nos. 9, 10; Magherini Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Franco Vago is a freight forwarder.
(UMFs No. 4; Magherini Decl., ¶ 2.) Franco Vago uses the same Torrance
Warehouse for its business needs. (UMFs Nos. 5, 6; Magherini Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4.)
However, Franco Vago did not control the manner in which Plaintiff performed
her duties for Fashion Logistics, never paid for Plaintiff’s work or services,
had no say in Plaintiff’s work for Fashion Logistics, and Plaintiff never
provided any work or services for Franco Vago. (UMFs Nos. 10, 14; Magherini
Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff never directly applied to work for Franco Vago nor
worked for Franco Vago, and Franco Vago has no business relationship with
Lyneer. (UMFs Nos. 6, 13; Magherini Decl., ¶¶ 4, 8.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues that, in her opinion, Franco Vago and Lyneer have an existing business
relationship similar to that of Lyneer’s relationship with Fashion Logistics.
To prove she was a Franco Vago employee, Plaintiff presents her declaration,
her own undisputed material facts (numbers 1-70), and the Magherini
Declaration. (Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts [PUMFs], Nos. 1-70;
Declaration of Nataly Consuelo [Consuelo Decl.], ¶¶ 5-6.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that other
employees informed her that Arciniega, a Franco Vago employee at the time of
the alleged incident, was a top general manager over all employees at the
Torrance Warehouse, making her a Franco Vago employee. (PUMFs, No. 10.)
Plaintiff cites the Magherini Declaration, paragraph 13, but this evidence does
not support Plaintiff’s contention. Additionally, Plaintiff claims Fashion
Logistics and Franco Vago were a “single enterprise” making her a Franco Vago
employee. (Response to UMFs No. 13.) Plaintiff provides no evidentiary support
for this contention. 
 
To determine whether an
employee-employer relationship exists for FEHA employment claims, the court
must consider the “totality of the circumstances” reflecting on the nature of
the work relationship of the parties, with an emphasis upon the extent to which
the defendant controls the plaintiff’s performance of employment duties.[2]
(Vernon v. State of California (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 114, 125.) “Multiple
entities may be employers where they ‘control different aspects of the
employment relationship.’” (Castaneda v. Ensign Group, Inc. (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 1015, 1019, quoting Martinez v. Combs, (2010) 49 Cal.4th
35, 76.) For example, when a temporary staffing agency “hires and pays a
worker, and another entity supervises the work.” (Martinez, supra,
49 Cal.4th at p. 76.) “Supervision of the work, in the specific sense of
exercising control over how services are performed, is properly viewed as one
of the ‘working conditions[.]’” (Ibid.) “[C]ontrol over how services are
performed is an important, perhaps even the principal, test for the existence
of an employment relationship.” (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that the
undisputed evidence shows that Plaintiff was an employee of both Lyneer and
Fashion Logistics because Fashion Logistics paid Lyneer to place Plaintiff with
Fashion Logistics as a pick and pack operator. Fashion Logistics trained
Plaintiff and instructed her on how to complete her tasks. The evidence shows
that Franco Vago and its employees were not involved in Plaintiff’s training or
a business relationship with Lyneer. Thus, Defendants have met their burden of
showing no issue of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s employment
relationship.
 
As a matter of law, because no employer-employee relationship
existed between Franco Vago and Plaintiff, the Court grants Franco Vago summary
judgment on all Plaintiff’s causes of action.
 
2.    
Harassment 
 
Plaintiff was not harassed. The
evidence shows that Plaintiff welcomed Perez’s conduct. That evidence is uncontradicted.
 
To prove no harassment occurred,
Defendants present the Magherini and Mojtehedi declarations and surveillance
footage from the bar on night of the alleged incident. That evidence
demonstrates that Plaintiff, far from being coerced or in fear, engaged in
friendly and behavior with both Perez and Arciniega throughout the night of the
alleged incident, including kissing, hugging, and holding hands with Perez. Plaintiff’s
declaration – which the Court finds inadmissible – does not address the
contradiction between what is shown on the video and what she pleaded in her
Complaint and substantially repeats in her declaration.
 
The surveillance footage shows that
Plaintiff drank several beers, engaged in continuous conversation, toasted
drinks, laughed, and smiled with Perez and Arciniega throughout the night.
(UMFs Nos. 65-120; Magherini Decl., ¶ 11; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶¶ 3, 9-18, Exhs. D,
E, L, and M.) Defendants also argue that Plaintiff flirted with Perez
throughout the night gesturing for him to kiss her on the cheek, kissing him on
the lips at least seven times, putting her arm around Perez, and walking
hand-in-hand with Perez to the parking lot. (UMFs Nos. 104-116; Mojtehedi
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, 14-15, Exhs. D, E; Magherini Decl., ¶ 11.) According to the
timestamps on the surveillance videos, Plaintiff flirted with Perez while
texting her husband. (UMFs No. 104; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ 2, Exhs. D, E, ¶¶ 3,
14-15; Magherini Decl., ¶ 11.)
 
Plaintiff and her then-husband
exchanged text messages from 7:53 pm until 8:26 pm. (UMFs Nos. 91-100;
Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ 2, Exhs. D, E, ¶ 4, Exh. L, RT 158-159.) Plaintiff’s texts
show that Plaintiff texted her then-husband that her “work” conversations would
not finish until around 8:00 pm and an Uber would be sent to pick her up. (UMFs
Nos. 64, 65; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4, Exh. L, RT 158-159.) Plaintiff’s then-husband
texts back stating he could pick her up. (UMFs No. 66; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ 4,
Exhs. D, E, Exh. L, RT 158-159.) Throughout the exchanges, Plaintiff’s
then-husband tells her that he has arrived at her place of work around 8:00 pm
and that everything is padlocked. (Ibid.) While drinking in the bar, Plaintiff
falsely tells him  that she is still at
work and will be done meeting around 9:30 p.m., at which time he could return
to pick her up. (Ibid.) Plaintiff does not mention that she is fearful
or that she is at a brewery. (UMFs Nos. 101-103; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ 2, Exhs. D,
E, ¶ 4, Exh. L, RT 158-159.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff makes
several unsupported accusations regarding her actions in the surveillance
video. First, Plaintiff argues that Perez had Plaintiff’s phone for a period
and “may have deleted the message[s].” (Plaintiff’s response citing its PUF,
but not a specific one.) Second, Plaintiff challenges whether she actually toasted
drinks throughout the night. (Response to UMFs No. 74.) Third, Plaintiff states
that Defendants speculate about whether Plaintiff was “laughing and smiling” in
the videos. (Response to UMFs No. 75.) Fourth, Plaintiff argues she was drugged
by Perez and Arciniega with GHB. (Response to UMFs No. 87.) Plaintiff argues
that even though her drug test results came back negative for everything except
alcohol, this is because hospitals do not test for GHB. (Response to UMFs No.
126.) Finally, Plaintiff asserts that Perez/Perez groped her breasts and
buttocks and penetrated her vagina with her finger multiple times, got on top
of her in the back of Arciniega’s car, and penetrated her multiple times.
(PUMFs No. 98; Consuelo Decl., ¶ 34.) The Court recites these assertions for
context, although the Court finds that they are inadmissible.
 
“Sexual
harassment consists of any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual
favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature. [Citation.] It
usually arises in two contexts. ‘Quid pro quo’ harassment conditions an
employee’s continued enjoyment of job benefits on submission to the harassment.
‘Hostile work environment’ harassment has the purpose or effect of either
interfering with the work performance of an employee or creating an
intimidating workplace.’” (Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc.
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865, 878, quoting Rieger v. Arnold (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 451, 459.) The plaintiff employee must show “she was subjected to
sexual advances, conduct, or comments that were severe enough or
sufficiently pervasive to alter the conditions of her employment and create a
hostile or abusive work environment.” (Lyle v. Warner Brothers
Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283; see also Gov. Code, ¶
12923, subd. (a).) The employee must show a “concerted pattern of harassment of
a repeated, routine, or a generalized nature.” (Lyle, supra, 38
Cal.4th at p. 283.) A single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient only if
it is extremely severe. (Beltran, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at p.
878.)
 
Sexual advances
are unwelcome and unwanted if they sufficiently offend, humiliate, distress, or
intrude upon its victim, to disrupt the victim’s emotional tranquility in the
workplace, affect the victim’s ability to perform the job as usual, or
otherwise interfere with and undermine the victim's personal sense of
well-being. (Gov. Code, ¶ 12923, subd. (a).) The actions must be both
objectively and subjectively offensive: “one that a reasonable person would
find hostile or abusive, and one that the victim in fact did perceive to be
so.” (Faragher v. Boca Raton (1998) 524 U.S. 775, 787; Beyda
v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 511, 518-519.) Harassment
under FEHA includes “verbal, physical, and visual harassment, as well as
unwanted sexual advances.” (Lyle v. Warner Brothers Television Productions
(2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 280.) 
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows that Perez’s actions toward Plaintiff were not unwelcome. The
surveillance video shows that Perez’s conduct was not “subjectively offensive”
because Plaintiff actively engaged in Perez’s conduct. Plaintiff initiated
kissing Perez by first gesturing to her cheek for a kiss. When Perez put his
arm around Plaintiff, Plaintiff reciprocated. Plaintiff kissed Perez multiple
times, walked hand-in-hand with him towards the parking, and never indicated to
her husband over text that she was afraid and being forced to do engage in
conduct she did not what to engage in. Plaintiff does not dispute what is shown
in the surveillance videos but contends that the descriptions of her conduct are
“speculation.” It might be speculative to imagine what Plaintiff was thinking,
but it is not speculation to describe what Plaintiff was doing.  
 
Defendants have met their burden of
showing no triable issue of material fact exists regarding whether Plaintiff
was harassed by Perez and Arciniega. 
 
As a matter of law, because no
harassment occurred, no basis for FEHA harassment claim exists, and the Court
GRANTS Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to the failure to
protect sexual harassment claim. 
 
3.    
Illegal Discrimination
 
To prove no discrimination occurred
and that Fashion Logistics is not liable for a discrimination claim, Defendants
assert that because Perez and Arciniega have no supervisory authority or the
ability to hire, discharge, or change the terms of a Fashion Logistics or
Franco Vago employee’s compensation terms, Fashion Logistics did not
discriminate against Plaintiff under FEHA. (UMFs Nos. 15-19, 25; Magherini
Decl., ¶¶ 9-13.) Defendants also assert that they had no knowledge of prior
instances of misconduct by Perez or Arciniega before the alleged assault, and
thus had no reason to know the conduct would occur. (UMFs Nos. 23, 24, 31, 32;
Magherini Decl., ¶¶ 12, 13.) Additionally, Defendants assert that Perez and
Arciniega completed sexual harassment training. (UMFs Nos. 23, 31; Magherini
Decl., ¶¶ 12, 13.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff alleges
that before leaving for the bar, Perez brought up her immigration status to
pressure her into going to bar. (PUMFs No. 68; Consuelo Decl., ¶ 22.)
 
An employer may not discriminate on
the basis of race, color, national origin, ancestry, or disabilities in hiring
a person, discharging a person, in deciding the terms, conditions, or
privileges of a person’s employment. (Gov. Code, ¶ 12940, subd. (a).) “Under
FEHA, supervisory employees have the authority to perform personnel management
duties such as the following: “(i) to hire, transfer, promote, assign, reward,
discipline or discharge other employees, or to effectively recommend any of
these actions; (ii) the responsibility to act on other employees’ grievances or
effectively to recommend action on grievances; or (iii) the responsibility to
direct other employees’ daily work activities.” (CACI 2525; Gov’t Code §
12926(r).) “Discrimination claims . . . arise out of
performance of necessary personnel management duties.” (Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 63.) 
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows no discrimination occurred because Perez and Arciniega were not
in a position of authority to discriminate against Plaintiff. Perez and
Arciniega did not work directly with Plaintiff and did not have the authority
to make changes to her employment status. Additionally, Plaintiff left her work
with Fashion Logistics before reporting the alleged conduct which led to her
filing this action. Without knowing the cause of Plaintiff’s complaint, Fashion
Logistics could not act to remedy the issue, especially towards Plaintiff, in a
timely manner. Thus, Defendants have met their burden of showing no issue of
material fact exists regarding whether Perez and Arciniega discriminated
against Plaintiff. was harassed by Perez and Arciniega. 
 
As a matter of law, because no discrimination
occurred, no basis for FEHA discrimination claim exists, and the Court GRANTS
Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to the failure to protect from
discrimination claim. 
 
4.    
Retaliation
 
To prove lack of retaliation,
Defendants present evidence that they were unaware of Plaintiff’s complaints
and the alleged conduct at issue until almost two weeks after Plaintiff stopped
returning to the Torrance Warehouse. On March 19, 2020, Fashion Logistics
became aware of a letter sent to Fashion Logistics from Plaintiff’s counsel
Belal Hamideh. (UMFs No. 38; Magherini Decl., ¶ 16, Exh. A.) After receiving
this letter, Magherini spoke with Perez and Arciniega about the incident, began
an investigation into the incident, and cooperated with law enforcement. (UMFs
Nos. 39, 40; Magherini Decl., ¶ 17.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants knew about the incident because she reported and complained
about the unlawful activity to supervisors Perez and Arciniega on March 6, 2020
while she was experienced harassment. (Opposition, p. 18:9-17.) Plaintiff
asserts that Perez and Arciniega threatened her by mentioning her kids, stating
they knew where she lived, and asking about her immigration status. (Consuelo
Decl., ¶¶ 22, 26.) Plaintiff further argues that she suffered constructive
discharge because of the treatment she received on March 6, 2020. (PUMFs No.
99; Consuelo Decl., ¶¶ 11, 14, 16.)
 
To establish FEHA retaliation, a
plaintiff must show “(1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the
employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a
causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.”
(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.) Protected
conduct includes “opposing any practices forbidden under this part or because
the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding
under this part.” (Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (h).) “Once an employee establishes
a prima facie case, the employer is required to offer a legitimate,
nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.” (Yanowitz, supra,
36 Cal.4th at p. 1042.) “If the employer produces a legitimate reason for the
adverse employment action, the presumption of retaliation “drops out of the
picture,” and the burden shifts back to the employee to prove intentional
retaliation.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Court finds that undisputed
evidence shows no retaliation occurred because Plaintiff left her work at Fashion
Logistics before Fashion Logistics knew about the alleged harassment and had a
chance to respond. The evidence shows that Plaintiff decided not to return the
Torrance Warehouse after March 6, 2020 and did not discuss her reasons for
doing so with anyone except Perez and Arciniega, nonsupervisory employees. Fashion
Logistics had no knowledge of the incident until almost two weeks later when
Fashion Logistics immediately began investigating the incident. Defendants did
not discharge her for reporting any unlawful conduct. Thus, Defendants have met
their burden of showing no issue of material fact exists regarding whether
Plaintiff engaged in protected activity before leaving her position at Fashion
Logistics.
 
As a matter of law, no basis for a
FEHA retaliation claim exists, and the Court GRANTS Fashion Logistics’ motion
for summary judgment as to the failure to protect from retaliation claim. 
 
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action for Illegal Failure
and Refusal to Provide a Timely, Good Faith, Interactive Process and Failure
and Refusal to Provide a reasonable accommodation in violation of FEHA
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff
never requested any accommodations nor informed Fashion Logistics that she had
any physical or mental conditions requiring accommodations during her
employment before or after March 6, 2020. (UMFs No. 37; Magherini Decl., ¶ 14,
15; Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ 4, Exh. L, RT 116-117.) Plaintiff never returned to the
Torrance Warehouse after March 6, 2020, never contacted anyone from Fashion
Logistics or Franco Vago, and Fashion Logistics never told Plaintiff or Lyneer
that Plaintiff could not come back to work at Fashion Logistics. (Magherini
Decl., ¶ 15.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
Defendants should have initiated a timely interactive process once Defendants
saw or knew about her disabilities. (Plaintiff’s response to UMFs No. 37.) Plaintiff
states she tried to stop the mistreatment from happening because it caused her
disabilities. (Ibid.) The accommodation Defendants should have offered
after receiving the letter was firing Perez and Arciniega and communicating
with Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Plaintiff provides no evidentiary support for
this.
 
To prevail on a FEHA claim for
failure to engage in interactive process, an employee must identify a
reasonable accommodation that would have been available at the time the
interactive process should have occurred. (Scotch v. Art Institute of
California (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1018-1019.) The employee cannot
necessarily be required to identify and request all possible accommodations
during the interactive process itself because employees do not have at their
disposal the extensive information concerning possible alternative positions or
accommodations which employers have. (Ibid.) However, once the parties
engage in the litigation process, the employee must be able to identify an
available accommodation the interactive process should have produced. (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows Defendants did not fail to provide an interactive process and
provide necessary accommodations for Plaintiff during her employment with
Fashion Logistics because Defendants did not know about Plaintiff’s needs. The
evidence shows that Defendants were unaware of Plaintiff’s disabilities until
they received the letter from Plaintiff’s counsel on March 19, 2020. Plaintiff
did not appear at the Torrance Warehouse after March 6, 2020 and did not report
the incident to Defendants or Lyneer. Finally, Plaintiff’s identified accommodation
(firing Perez and Arciniega and reaching out to her) were available during the
alleged incident, but without knowledge of the incident Defendants could not
act accordingly. Thus, Defendants have met their burden. 
 
As a matter of law, no basis for these
causes of action exists, and the Court GRANTS Fashion Logistics’ motion for
summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of action.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Wrongful Constructive
Discharge in violation of FEHA
 
Defendants argue that Fashion
Logistics had no knowledge or intent to create conditions which would force
Plaintiff to resign from her position. Plaintiff never returned to the Torrance
Warehouse after March 6, 2020, never contacted anyone from Fashion Logistics
after leaving, and Fashion Logistics never told Plaintiff or Lyneer that
Plaintiff could not return to work at Fashion Logistics. (Magherini Decl., ¶
15.) The only individuals with knowledge of the alleged incident were Perez and
Arciniega, nonsupervisory employees. (UMFs Nos. 15-19, 25; Magherini Decl., ¶¶
9-13.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she
suffered a constructive discharge because of the illegal mistreatment she
experienced on March 6, 2020. (PUMFs No. 99; Consuelo Decl., ¶¶ 11, 14, 16.)
Plaintiff alleges she assumed she would be fired if she did not continue to
tell the facts Perez and Arciniega told her to tell. (Ibid.) 
 
To establish constructive
discharge, a plaintiff must prove by a preponderance of the evidence that the
employer either “intentionally created or knowingly permitted working
conditions that were so intolerable or aggravated at the time of the employee’s
resignation that a reasonable employer would realize that a reasonable person
in the employee’s position would be compelled to resign.” (Turner v.
Anheuser-Busch, Inc., (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1251.) “[T]he requisite
knowledge or intent must exist on the part of either the employer or those
persons who effectively represent the employer, i.e., its officers, directors,
managing agents, or supervisory employees.” (Ibid.)
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows that Fashion Logistics did not have the intent or knowledge to
create an intolerable work environment. Defendants have demonstrated
constructive discharge did not occur. The evidence shows that neither Fashion
Logistics nor its officers, directors, or supervisors were aware of the facts
that Plaintiff alleges led to her not returning to work until receiving the
letter from Plaintiff’s counsel on March 19, 2020. Thus, Defendants have met
their burden of showing no triable issue of material fact exists. 
 
As a matter of law, the Court
GRANTS Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to the wrongful
constructive discharge claim. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Violation of Whistleblower
Protection under Labor Code sections 6310, 6311, and 6400
 
 “Any employee who is discharged, threatened
with discharge, demoted, suspended, or in any other manner discriminated
against in the terms and conditions of employment by his or her employer
because the employee has made a bona fide oral or written complaint to the
division, other governmental agencies having statutory responsibility for or
assisting the division with reference to employee safety or health, his or her
employer, or his or her representative, of unsafe working conditions, or work
practices, in his or her employment or place of employment, or has participated
in an employer-employee occupational health and safety committee, shall be
entitled to reinstatement and reimbursement for lost wages and work benefits
caused by the acts of the employer. Any employer who willfully refuses to
rehire, promote, or otherwise restore an employee or former employee who has
been determined to be eligible for rehiring or promotion by a grievance
procedure, arbitration, or hearing authorized by law, is guilty of a misdemeanor.”
(Lab. Code, § 6310, subd. (b).)
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows no basis for a whistleblower claim under Labor Code sections
6310, 6311, and 6400. The evidence shows that Plaintiff left Fashion Logistics
on her own before filing her complaint or sending the letter to Fashion
Logistics. Plaintiff left without telling Fashion Logistics, Lyneer, or any
supervisory Fashion Logistics employee. The evidence also shows that Fashion
Logistics did not discharge or threaten to discharge Plaintiff for making a
complaint. Thus, Defendant has met its burden of showing no triable dispute of
material fact exists.
 
As a matter of law, the Court
GRANTS Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to the whistleblower claim
under Labor Code sections 6310, 6311, and 6400. 
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of Whistleblower
Protection under Labor Code section 1102.5
 
 “A claim for violation of Labor Code
section 1102.5 requires ‘(1) the plaintiff establish a prima facie case of
retaliation, (2) the defendant provide a legitimate, nonretaliatory explanation
for its acts, and (3) the plaintiff show this explanation is merely a pretext
for the retaliation.’ [Citation]” (Ross v. County of Riverside (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 580, 591-592.) “To establish the first element, the plaintiff must
show (1) the plaintiff engaged in protected activity, (2) the defendant
subjected the plaintiff to an adverse employment action, and (3) there is a
causal link between the two. [Citation]” (Ross v. County of Riverside
(2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 580, 592.) “An employee engages in activity protected by
the statute when the employee discloses ‘reasonably based suspicions’ of
illegal activity. [Citation.]’” (Id.)
 
Based on the undisputed evidence
above, the Courts finds that Plaintiff has no basis for a Whistleblower
Protection claim under the Labor Code section 1102.5. The evidence shows
Plaintiff refused to return to work at the Torrance Warehouse before reporting
the alleged illegal conduct of Perez and Arciniega. The evidence does not
support finding that Fashion Logistics retaliated against Plaintiff through
adverse employment actions in response to her complaints. When Fashion
Logistics learned about Plaintiff’s complaint, it immediately investigated her
claims and cooperated with law enforcement. Thus, Defendant has met its burden
of showing no triable dispute of material fact exists.
 
As a matter of law, the Court GRANTS
Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to the whistleblower
protection claim under Labor Code section 1102.5
 
Ninth Cause of Action for Wrongful Harassment,
Discrimination, and Retaliation in Violation of Public Policy
 
To establish public policy causes
of action, the plaintiff must first show that the he or she was an “employee,
applicant, unpaid intern or volunteer, or person providing services under a
contract” with the defendant. (Gov. Code, ¶ 12940(j)(1).) 
 
The Courts finds that the undisputed
evidence shows that Plaintiff cannot sustain a public policy cause of action
against Fashion Logistics because Perez and Arciniega’s actions cannot be
imputed to Fashion Logistics. Neither Perez nor Arciniega are directors or
supervisory employees according to the Labor Code. Additionally, Plaintiff
fails to attack the credibility of Defendants’ evidence and failed to establish
harassment, discrimination, or retaliation claims under FEHA. Thus, Defendant
has met its burden of showing no triable dispute of material fact exists.
 
As a matter of law, the Court GRANTS
Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s public policy
cause of action. 
 
Tenth, Twelfth, and Thirteenth Causes of Action – Intentional
Infliction of Severe Emotional Distress, Sexual Assault and Battery, and Gender
Violence
 
1.    
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The elements of a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are that: “(1) [the] defendant
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to cause, or with
reckless disregard to the probability of causing, emotional distress; and (2)
as a result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional distress.” (Berry
v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273.) The conduct must be directed
at the plaintiff or occur in the presence of a plaintiff the defendant is aware
of. (Ibid.) FEHA and public policy claims can form the basis of a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Fretland v.
County of Humboldt (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492.)
 
2.    
Sexual Assault and Battery
 
A person commits sexual battery if
they: “(1) act with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with an intimate
part of another, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or
indirectly results; (2) act with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive
contact with another by use of the person’s intimate part, and a
sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results; (3)
act to cause an imminent apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph (1)
or (2), and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or
indirectly results; or (4) cause contact between a sexual organ, from which a
condom has been removed, and the intimate part of another who did not verbally
consent to the condom being removed.” (Civ. Code, § 1708.5, subd. (a).)
 
3.    
Gender Violence
 
Gender violence is a form of sex
discrimination and means: “(1) One or more acts that would constitute a
criminal offense under state law that has as an element the use, attempted use,
or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another,
committed at least in part based on the gender of the victim, whether or not
those acts have resulted in criminal complaints, charges, prosecution, or
conviction; or (2) A physical intrusion or physical invasion of a sexual nature
under coercive conditions, whether or not those acts have resulted in criminal
complaints, charges, prosecution, or conviction.”
 
Defendants argue all Plaintiff’s
tort causes of action fail as a matter of law because Plaintiff has not
presented evidence proving that Defendants knew about Perez and Arciniega’s
conduct. (Motion, pp. 13-16:1-10.) Because Perez and Arciniega were nonsupervisory
employees, they did not commit the alleged acts within the course of their
employment for employers, and Defendants did not encourage Perez and Arciniega
to engage in the alleged conduct, Plaintiff cannot impute the conduct at issue
onto Defendants. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants present the results of Plaintiff’s
Sexual Assault Evidence Kit (SART) and Plaintiff’s drug test at Providence
Little Company of Mary Medical Center in San Pedro. The SART results detected
DNA from Juan Castaneda, Plaintiff’s then-husband, in and on Plaintiff’s vagina
and vulva. (Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ Exh. D, at pp. 4, 12.) The exam found Perez’s DNA
under a fingernail on Plaintiff’s right hand. (Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ Exh. D, at p.
8.) Plaintiff took a drug test on March 7, 2020. (Mojtehedi Decl., ¶ Exh. M, at
p. 3-5.) Plaintiff tested negative for drugs and positive for alcohol. (Ibid.)
The report notes that Plaintiff showed no signs of head trauma or any other
physical trauma. (Ibid.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that Defendants did know of Perez and Arciniega’s acts because she told
Defendants by telling Arciniega and Perez on the night of the alleged acts.
Plaintiff states she was drugged with GHB, which the hospital test did not
include, and that she continues to suffer mentally and physically from the
incident.
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows that Plaintiff cannot hold Fashion Logistics liable for the
tortious claims based on acts committed by Perez and Arciniega because neither
was a supervisory employee. As mentioned above, Defendants were unaware of the
alleged conduct until receiving the March 19, 2020 from Plaintiff’s counsel. The
evidence also shows that Fashion Logistics did not encourage Perez and
Arciniega to engage in harmful conduct towards Plaintiff. After learning about
Plaintiff’s complaint, Fashion Logistics immediately investigated Plaintiff’s
allegations and cooperated with law enforcement. The SART and drug test results
show Perez did not rape or drug Plaintiff because his DNA was only found on her
right hand rather than in or near her genitals. Plaintiff does not present
evidence to challenge the credibility of Defendants’ evidence or actions. Thus,
Fashion Logistics has met its burden of showing no triable dispute of material
fact exists.
 
As a matter of law, the Court GRANTS
Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s tenth, twelfth,
and thirteenth causes of action.
 
Eleventh Cause of Action for Willful Misconduct
 
To establish willful misconduct,
the plaintiff must establish the elements of negligence and that the defendant
had (1) actual or constructive knowledge of the peril to be apprehended, (2)
actual or constructive knowledge that injury is probable, as opposed to a
possible, result of the danger, and (3) conscious failure to act avoid the
peril.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Ass’n, Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1140.) Constructive knowledge exists where a person should
have known about a particular danger or risk. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants argue they had no
knowledge of Perez and Arciniega’s alleged unlawful conduct until they received
the letter from Plaintiff’s counsel on March 19, 2020. (UMFs No. 38; Magherini
Decl., ¶ 16, Exh. A.) Prior to receiving this letter, Perez and Arciniega had
no known prior instances of sexual assault, harassment, or discrimination. (UMFs
Nos. 23, 24, 31, 32; Magherini Decl., ¶¶ 12, 13.) Additionally, Defendants
assert that Perez and Arciniega completed sexual harassment training. (UMFs
Nos. 23, 31; Magherini Decl., ¶¶ 12, 13.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff states
that Defendants perpetrated outrageous misconduct toward her with the intent to
recklessly cause emotional distress and the Defendants knew of the peril and
harm caused, because she told Perez and Arciniega on March 6, 2020, but failed
to act to avoid the harm. (Opposition, p. 23:4-8.)
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows that Plaintiff cannot hold Defendants liable for willful
misconduct based on acts committed by Perez and Arciniega because neither was a
supervisory employee. Perez and Arciniega were nonsupervisory employees who
worked separately from Plaintiff. Defendants were unaware of the alleged
conduct until receiving the letter on March 19, 2020. In response to the letter,
Defendants immediately investigated Plaintiff’s allegations and cooperated with
law enforcement. Plaintiff does not present evidence to challenge the
credibility of Defendants’ evidence regarding subsequent steps Fashion
Logistics took once learning about Plaintiff’s complaint. Thus, Defendant has
met its burden of showing no triable dispute of material fact exists.
 
As a matter of law, the Court GRANTS
Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s willful
misconduct cause of action.
 
Fourteenth Cause of Action for Violation of the Unfair
Business Practices Act
 
To state a claim under Unfair Business Practices Act,
the plaintiff must show that members of public are likely to be deceived. (Bank
of the West v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1266-1267.) “Virtually
any law—federal, state or local—can serve as a predicate for a[n] Unfair
Competition Law action.” (State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Superior
Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102-1103.) However, if the
statutory basis for the claim fails, so does the derivative Unfair Competition
Law claim. (Aleksick v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.)
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows that Plaintiff’s Unfair Competition claim fails because all the claims
on which Plaintiff based this claim also fail. 
 
As a matter of law, the Court GRANTS
Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment as to the Unfair Business
Practices Act cause of action.
 
Punitive Damages
 
A plaintiff may recover punitive
damages if the plaintiff proves by “clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant [employer] has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice[.]” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant
to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advanced knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).) With respect to a corporate employer, “punitive damages cannot be
awarded against a corporation for conduct of an employee unless a corporate
officer, director, or managing agent had knowledge of the employee’s unfitness
and disregarded the rights of others (or authorized/ratified the conduct or
committed the act of oppression).” (Myers v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1436.) A defendant is guilty of fraud, malice or
oppression if the evidence shows the defendant “engaged in despicable conduct,
or conduct intended to cause injury to plaintiff.” (Scott v. Phoenix
Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 716.)
 
The Court finds that the undisputed
evidence shows Fashion Logistics had no advanced knowledge of Perez and
Arciniega being unfit employees, nor did Fashion Logistics ratify their
actions. Fashion Logistics is a corporate employer. Fashion Logistics had no advanced
knowledge of Perez and Arciniega’s unfitness as employees or the acts Plaintiff
alleges. Perez and Arciniega were not officers, directors, or managing agents
of Fashion Logistics, nor were any officers, directors, or managing agents
aware of Perez and Arciniega’s conduct until Fashion Logistics received the
letter from Plaintiff’s counsel on March 19, 2020. When Fashion Logistics learned
of the alleged conduct, Fashion Logistics immediately began an investigation,
cooperated with law enforcement, and reached out to Lyneer for more details
about Plaintiff’s complaint to learn the full facts of the incident. Thus,
Defendant has met its burden of showing no triable dispute of material fact
exists.
 
As a matter of law, the Court
GRANTS Fashion Logistics’ motion for summary judgment regarding Punitive
Damages.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ evidence – including
video footage of the events in question and Plaintiff’s duplicitous text
messages to her former husband – demonstrate that Plaintiff’s Complaint and
Declaration are substantially untrue. The admissible evidence prevents a
reasonable trier of fact from finding that Plaintiff can establish essential elements
of her causes of action. Plaintiff has failed to offer admissible evidence to
raise a dispute of material fact.
 
Fashion Logistics and Franco Vago’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.


