

 
Background
            
On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff Dwell California
Real Estate & Investment, Inc. (“Dwell”) filed an action against Defendants
Johnny Gill, Compass California, Inc., Kathy Mehringer, Lilach Basson, the
Beverly Hills Estates, Inc., Branden Brent Williams, Rayni Romito Williams,
Gregory Allan La Plant, Jerica Leanna Juncker Jensen, and Twana Henry, for (1)
real estate broker commission, (2) interfering with prospective economic
advantage, and (3) tortious interference with contract. Plaintiff’s claims
arise from a real estate transaction between the parties.
On August 13, 2024, Defendant Johnny
Gill (“Gill”) moved to quash service of summons. On September 11, 2024, the
Court granted Gill’s motion to quash service of summons, holding that Gill
presented sufficient evidence showing he was out of state when allegedly served
personally by Dwell’s process server. Gill thus adequately rebutted the
presumption of the Court’s personal jurisdiction over him, and Dwell provided
no opposition.
            
On September 10, 2024, Dwell filed Proof
of Service indicating personal service on Gill on the same day.
 
On October 1, 2024, Defendant Gill
filed another motion to quash service of summons (“Motion”) on similar grounds
of improper service. On October 11, 2024, Dwell filed an opposition.
             
 
Legal Standard
 
“A summons may be served by personal delivery of a copy of
the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete at the time of such delivery.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 415.10.)
 
“‘Service of process, under
longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is fundamental to any
procedural imposition on a named defendant.’ [Citation.]” (AO Alfa-Bank v.
Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189, 202.) “To establish personal
jurisdiction, compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is
essential.” (Kremerman v. White (2021). 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 371.)
Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not dispense with statutory
requirements for service of summons. (Kappel v. Bartlett (1988) 200
Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.)
 
“A defendant, on or before
the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the
court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her” that results from
lack of proper service. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1)). “When a defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the
ground of improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove
the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413.) When a defendant moves to quash service for lack
of personal jurisdiction, the burden is on the plaintiff to establish
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence. (Dill v. Berquist Const.
Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1438–42.) 
 
A proof of service filed by
a plaintiff including the declaration of a registered process server gives rise
to a presumption of the facts stated therein, thus requiring the defendant to
produce evidence that he was not served. (American Exp. Centurion Bank v.
Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.) 
 
“Evidence Code section 647
provides that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes
a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in
the declaration. [Citation.]” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code, § 647.) ¿“A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper
service of process.”¿ (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th
801, 808.)
 
Discussion

            
Here, the Proof of Service filed by Dwell indicates personal
service of the summons, complaint, alternative dispute resolution package and
civil case cover sheet on Johnny Gill on September 10, 2024 at 9:14 a.m. at
19237 Charles Street, Tarzana, CA 91356. The Court finds that Dwell’s Proof of Service
creates a rebuttable presumption regarding the burden of production as to
service.
 
Defendant Gill contends that the Court lacks personal
jurisdiction over him because the summons papers were not properly served and,
thus, the Court has not acquired personal jurisdiction over him. (Mot. p. 2.) Gill’s
attorney, in her declaration, states that Dwell’s process server threw
“unidentified documents at the end of […] Defendant’s driveway” without
identifying himself or the nature of the documents. (Sedaghatfar Decl. ¶ 4.) To
support this allegation, Gill provides security camera footage, which includes
sound but no transcript. (Sedaghatfar Decl. ¶ 3.) The video depicts a black SUV
pulling out of a gated driveway as a man at the foot of the driveway asks, “Is
Johnny Gill available?” to which an unidentified voice replies, “No.” (Sedaghatfar
Decl. ¶ 3.) The man responds, “I have some papers for him,” without further
describing the papers, throws the papers by the gate, and walks away. (Sedaghatfar
Decl. ¶ 3.) Gill argues that personal service was not effected because,
contrary to the indication on the Proof of Service, he was not personally served
and when Dwell’s process server asked about Gill he was told Gill was not
available. (Sedaghatfar Decl. ¶ 3–4.) Johnny Gill does not appear in the video footage
provided by Gill’s counsel in her supporting declaration, rebutting the
presumption that personal service on him was proper. (Sedaghatfar Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
In Trujillo v. Tujillo (1945) 71 Cal.App.2d 257, 259–60,
the Court held service of summons was effected where affiant process server “explained
to the defendant the nature of the documents which he attempted to serve and
read to him the order to show cause ‘in a loud and clear voice’” despite
defendant evading personal service by entering his automobile on a public
street and rolling up his car window. The Court reasoned that because the
process server left the copies of the documents “in the custody and control of
the defendant with an explanation of the nature thereof, and that the defendant
knew the nature of the documents and the purpose of leaving them with him,”
personal service of process on the defendant was effected. In Sternbeck v.
Buck (1957) 148 Cal.App.2d 829, 833, the Court held that where defendant made
no attempt to evade service of summons and was within a hundred feet of the
process server the method of dropping papers was insufficient to effectuate
personal service and establish jurisdiction over the defendant.
 
Unlike Trujillo, where the process server’s
explanation to the defendant of the nature of the documents and the necessity
of appearing and answering the action weighed in favor of proper service, here,
Dwell’s process server stated, “I have some papers for [Johnny Gill],” but gave
no explanation as to the nature of the papers or that he was serving process
with legal documents, weighing against proper service. (Sedaghatfar Decl. ¶ 3–4.)
Also unlike Trujillo, where the court relaxed the strict
requirements of manual delivery to the defendant because defendant evaded
personal service by rolling up his car window after plaintiff approached him with
the documents, here, no facts establish that Gill evaded Dwell’s attempted
personal service or was even present. Dwell’s process server, in opposition, argues
that he saw Gill “directly in [his] line of sight” and that he had “a clear
unobstructed view of Johnny Gill,” but the declaration and video footage provided
by Gill contradict this allegation. (Morrow Decl. ¶ 9(f)-(g); Sedaghatfar Decl.
¶ 3–4.) The video footage provided by Gill’s counsel shows no sign of Gill in
the driveway where the purported service of process occurred. (Sedaghatfar Decl.
¶ 3–4.) Additionally, similar to Sternbeck, where the process server’s
method of dropping papers failed to effectuate proper service on the defendant
who was within one hundred feet away, here, even assuming Gill was somewhere in
the driveway out of frame in the video provided by Gill’s counsel, Dwell’s
process server dropped the papers and did not personally deliver the papers to
Gill, weighing against proper service. Notably, Dwell’s process server states
that he recorded some of the interaction and can produce the recording, if
needed. (Morrow Decl. ¶ 11.) However, based on review of the declarations
provided, the Court finds Gill has rebutted the presumption that personal service
was effected under Code of Civil Procedure, section 415.10.
 
Lastly, the Court notes that Dwell alleges personal service
and not that it served process on an authorized agent or through substituted
service. The Proof of Service filed September 10, 2024, thus, does not comply
with the Code of Civil Procedure, section 415.20, which requires a showing of reasonable
diligence to personally serve the defendant and subsequent mailing of the
summons and complaint to the defendant’s dwelling place or usual place of abode
to establish jurisdiction through substituted service.
 
Accordingly, Gill has rebutted the presumption of proper
personal service and Dwell has failed to establish, by a preponderance of
evidence, the facts necessary for this Court to assert jurisdiction over Gill.
            
Conclusion
 
            The Court grants Defendant Johnny Gill’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons.