

Hearing Date:             October 24, 2024
Case Name:                 CESAR SAZO, et al. vs JRM
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC.         
Case No.:                    22STCV37126         
Motion:                       Motion
to Be Relieved 
Moving
Party:             Robert Ackermann
(Attorney)

Responding Party:      none


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel filed by Robert Ackermann as to plaintiff Yenmy Sazo; the Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel filed by Robert Ackermann as to plaintiff  Marvin Medina; the Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel filed by Robert Ackermann as to plaintiff  Adreana Medina; the Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel filed by Robert Ackermann as to plaintiff  Lesly Meina; 
the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Robert Ackermann as to
plaintiff  Alexandena Medina; the Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel filed by Robert Ackermann as to plaintiff  Christopher Medina; will be continued to
another date unless Defendant waives notice of the motion. 
 

 
            This is a
habitability case. On November 28, 2022, Plaintiffs Cesar Sazo, Ana Diaz, Ana
Sazo, Omar Hernandez, Yenmy Sazo, Marvin Medina, Javier Hernandez, Jaiden
Garcia, Christopher Medina, Lesly Medina, Adreana Medina, and Alexanden Medina
filed suit against defendants Roberto Sanchez, Jill Michie, and JRM Property
Management, Inc (collectively Defendants).
 
           Now,
counsel  Robert Ackermann (Moving
Counsel) moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Yenmy Sazo, Marvin Medina, Adreana Medina, Lesly Medina, Alexandena
Medina, and Christopher Medina (collectively Plaintiffs).
 
Discussion 
 
The first issue
is whether Moving Counsel has complied with the procedural requirements to be
relieved as counsel. Moving Counsel filed all three required forms (MC-051,
-052, and -053) for each of the plaintiffs, and the documents themselves also
indicate that the client was served with the documents as required by Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1362, subdivision (d). 
 
However, Moving
Counsel’s proofs of service do not indicate whether the forms were served on
the opposing parties as required by Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, subdivision
(d). Unless
counsel for Defendants waives or confirms service of the motions at the hearing,
the motion must be continued to ensure proper notice is given. 
 
The second issue is
whether there is prejudice to the clients where Moving Counsel seeks to
withdraw four months prior to the trial date of February 24, 2025. 
 
Generally, there is “no authority
preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interest.” (Ramirez v.
Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) “[T]he court has discretion to
deny an attorney’s request to withdraw where such withdrawal would work an
injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding. [citation] But the court’s
discretion in this area, as elsewhere in the law, is one to be exercised
reasonably.” (Mandell v. Superior Ct. (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)
Further, a “lawyer shall not terminate a representation until the lawyer has
taken reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights
of the client such as giving the client sufficient notice to permit the client
to retain other counsel. . .” (Prof. Conduct, Rule 1.16, subd. (d).)
 
Here,
Moving Counsel seeks to be relieved due to “[i]rreconcilable differences and
breakdown in communication”. Communication is a cornerstone and pillar of
effective and competent representation. While the court has some concern
regarding prejudice to the client, given that trial is set to begin
approximately four months after this hearing the court concludes the prejudice
is minimal. Further, any prejudice which may arise if Plaintiffs are unable to
retain new counsel can be addressed closer to the trial date.
 
Defendant
filed no opposition to the motions. Unless Defendant waives notice of the motions,
the hearing on the motions will be reset.
 
At
least five days prior to the next hearing moving party is directed to file
proof of service of the moving papers upon Defendants. 
 
 
 