 Case Number:  20SMCV00739    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Tizabgar, et
al., v. Abrahams, et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00739
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   12/5/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to
each request, except as to Exhibit 9 which is not subject to judicial notice.
(Evid. Code § 452(c), (d).)
 
Defendants’ objections to the declaration of Derek Downey
are OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ objections the declaration of Mark Tizabgar is
SUSTAINED as to paragraph 10, and OVERRULED as to the remainder.
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the declaration of Frederick
Jones are SUSTAINED as to paragraphs 15 [as to opinion], 20 [as to opinion of
burden], 22 [as to opinion], and 32 [as to legal conclusion that the
encroachment is “permanent”], and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
            Plaintiffs’ objections to the declaration
of Keith Abrahams are SUSTAINED as to paragraphs 6, 15, 28, 34, and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the declaration of Stacey
Abrahams are SUSTAINED as to paragraphs 6, 15, 28, and 34, and otherwise OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiffs’ objections to the declaration of Kay Greeley are
OVERRULED.
 
            Plaintiffs’ objections to the declaration
of Scott Cohen are SUSTAINED as to paragraphs 8, 13, and 15, and otherwise
OVERRULED.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Mark Q. Tizabgar, and
Hengameh Tizabgar, as Trustees of The Raet Trust, dated June 23, 2016
(“Tizabgars”), move for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication against Defendant Keith Abrahams and Stacey Abrahams, individually
and as Trustees of the Abrahams Living Trust Dated December 1, 2005
(“Defendants”), on noticed issues in the First Amended Complaint (FAC) and/or
the affirmative defense of equitable easement alleged in the Answer to the FAC.
The motion notices the following issues:
 
            Issue no.
1: Defendants’ Sixteenth Affirmative Defense for a claim of Equitable Easement
fails as a matter of law, because (1) Defendants willfully and/or negligently
trespassed onto the Tizabgars’ property, regardless of whatever easement right
that they may or may not possess; (2) the Tizabgars are irreparably injured by
their claimed easement rights, because they are deprived of the full use and
enjoyment of their property, including their absolute right to repair and
improve the waterline to their house; and (3) the balance of the hardships
favor the Tizabgars, because the harm in the loss of the Tizabgars’ property
rights outweighs the minimal cost Defendants would incur in removing their
encroachments onto the Tizabgars’ land and allowing the Tizabgars the make the
necessary repairs and improvements to their waterline. 
 
Issue No. 2: that the Tizabgars
first cause of action for Quiet Title succeeds as a matter of law because
Defendants’ pool/spa, planter, and fence encroach on Plaintiff’s property and
exceed Defendants’ easement rights, and Defendants do not have an equitable
easement. 
 
Issue No. 3: that the Tizabgars
second cause of action for Trespass to Land succeeds as a matter of law because
Defendants’ pool/spa, planter, and fence encroach on Plaintiff’s property and
exceed Defendants’ easement rights, and Defendants do not have an equitable
easement. 
 
Issue No. 4: that the Tizabgars
third cause of action for Ejectment succeeds as a matter of law because
Defendants’ pool/spa, planter, and fence encroach on Plaintiff’s property and
exceed Defendants’ easement rights, and Defendants do not have an equitable
easement. 
 
Issue No. 5: that the Tizabgars
fourth cause of action for Nuisance succeeds as a matter of law because
Defendants’ pool/spa, planter, and fence encroach on Plaintiff’s property and
exceed Defendants’ easement rights, and Defendants do not have an equitable
easement. 
 
Issue No. 6: that the Tizabgars
fifth cause of action for Declaratory Relief succeeds as a matter of law
because Defendants’ pool/spa, planter, and fence encroach on Plaintiff’s
property and exceed Defendants’ easement rights, and Defendants do not have an
equitable easement.
 
            The FAC
alleges causes of action for quiet title, trespass, ejectment, nuisance, and
declaratory relief. The FAC concerns a real property dispute between neighbors.
Defendants have an easement of a 10-foot-wide strip of Plaintiffs’ property for
“landscaping and horticulture” purposes. Plaintiffs contend that Defendants
have exceeded that easement by pouring concrete to extend a pool deck into the
easement area, erecting a 16” concrete planter, and putting up a fence, which
has physically blocked Plaintiffs from entering or using their own property.
 
Issue 1: Equitable Easement Defense
 
Plaintiffs first target Defendants’
sixteenth affirmative defense, which alleges that Plaintiffs’ claims are “barred
because Defendants are entitled to an equitable easement, at a minimum, over
the disputed area because in balancing the relative hardships and equities, the
Court should allow Defendants’ improvements to remain. Plaintiffs live two
houses away and are unaffected by the improvements.”  The easement portion of the property is
referred to by the parties as the “Flag Area.”
 
An easement creates a nonpossessory right
to enter and use land in another's possession and obligates the possessor not
to interfere with the uses authorized by the easement. (Main Street Plaza v.
Cartwright & Main, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1044, 1053.) “An easement
may be created by (1) an express grant, (2) an express reservation, (3) an
implied grant, (4) an implied reservation, (5) necessity, (6) prescription, (7)
a recorded¿covenant, (8) dedication, (9) condemnation, (10) estoppel, or (11) a
court decision....” (Id. at 1053-54.) 
 
An equitable easement authorizes a
trespasser to continue his or her trespass in exchange for paying damages where
the hardship to the trespasser is greatly disproportionate to the hardship
caused to the servient owner over whose property the easement is granted. (Hinrichs
v. Melton (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 516, 522.) An equitable easement requires that: (1)
the use of the property was innocent; (2) the property owner is not irreparably
injured by the use; and (3) the hardship to the claimant from having to cease
usage is greatly disproportionate to the hardship caused to the owner by the
continued usage. (Shoen v. Zacharias, (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 16, 19
(Shoen I).) Generally, equitable easements are granted in cases
involving permanent physical encroachments such as buildings. (Id.
at 20 [collecting cases, citing examples such as garage and driveway, porch
pillar and roof eaves, walls, reservoirs, utility lines, sewer lines, water and
electrical lines, gas lines and meters, and necessary rights of access]; see, e.g., Hirshfield v. Schwartz,
(2001) 91 Cal. App. 4th 749, 764 [substantial evidence supported denial of homeowners'
requested injunction to remove neighbors’ encroachment, where neighbors would
have to remove concrete wall and underground motors that were inadvertently
built on homeowners' property, and homeowners' plans for greenhouse and
circular driveway on their land did not require removal of encroachment].)
 
“Equitable easements give trespassers ‘what
is, in effect, the right of eminent domain by permitting him to occupy property
owned by another.’ ” (Shoen,
supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at 21.) Accordingly, courts
issue equitable easements with “an abundance of caution,” resolve doubts
against their issuance, and require that the hardship on the trespasser be
greatly disproportionate than the owner’s hardship of losing exclusive use of
the property. (Ibid.) In other words, the court must consider “whether
the burden on the trespasser in ceasing the trespass is so greatly
disproportionate to the burden on the property owner from the loss of use of
the trespassed-upon property that the courts should make an exception to the
general rules of property ownership and require the owner to accept damages
instead of reclamation of her own land.” (Id. [hardship was not so
greatly disproportionate where Zacarias would only suffer $300 to remove patio
furniture from Shoen's property and to install a stairway that leads to her
neighbor's property].)
 
Plaintiffs assert that each element
of the equitable easement claim fails. First, Plaintiffs contend that the use
of the property was not innocent. Plaintiffs contend that Defendants
“negligently” trespassed. (See Christensen v. Tucker (1952) 114
Cal.App.2d 554, 564 [a defendant whose negligence is the sole proximate
cause of an encroachment on a plaintiff's property is barred from invoking the balancing
of hardships—but where plaintiff's conduct also contributes to the situation,
then the trier of the fact is entitled to weigh the hardships each may suffer].)
Plaintiffs proffer evidence that Defendants had constructive notice of the
trespass through Defendants’ deed, the deed of trust for Defendants’ mortgage,
their preliminary title report, and documents concerning their homeowners’
insurance policy. (UMF 17-18.) In addition, Mr. Abrahams walked the entirety of
his property before he purchased it. (UMF 16.)  Plaintiffs argue that in light of these
documents, and the fact that Keith Abrahams is a co-founder and owner of a real
estate company, Defendants knew that they did not own a ten-foot-wide strip of
land in their backyard, and only possessed, at most, an easement for
“landscaping and horticulture” purposes. Plaintiff also contends that the
manhole gave notice of the waterline going under their backyard. (UMF 6-7, 23.)
However, Mr. Abrahams testified that although he was aware that the manhole
exists, and that it connects to some underground pipe, he was not sure of its
purpose. (UMF 7.)
 
 Taking all inferences in favor of the
non-moving party, this evidence does not demonstrate that as a matter of law Defendants
intentionally or, through their sole responsibility, negligently caused the
encroachment at issue, and thus cannot maintain a claim for an equitable
easement. Plaintiffs do not present evidence that the nature of the real property
line would be such that Mr. Abrahams’ in-person review would have placed him on
notice that the specific section of the backyard was actually owned by his
neighbors. Likewise, even if Defendants’ documents evidenced the property line,
the record does not show that a reasonable person would conclude that the existing
fenced off area in Defendants’ backyard included the Flag Area. Further, the
fact that Mr. Abrahams is a co-founder and owner of a real estate company does
not show, by itself, that he has expertise in easements. 
 
In any event, there would be a
dispute of fact as to whether Defendants were innocent when they encroached
upon the Property. First, Defendants explain that while
Mr. Abrahams is a co-owner of a real estate company, he deals with the finances
of the company and its operations. (DUMF 45.) He is a CPA and is not familiar
with legal descriptions for properties or anything related to title issues.
(Id.) When Defendants viewed their property before deciding to purchase it, the
entire backyard, which includes the Flag Area, was enclosed within a fence.
(DUMF 3.) The fence on the east side was very old and weathered and the entire
backyard had been enclosed for many years. (Id.) 
 
Defendants’ realtor specifically
asked the prior owners of their property who had owned it since 1998 if there
were any lot line issues with the east and south neighbors, and their written
response was “no disputes.” (DUMF 5.) As such, Defendants felt confident their
backyard was completely theirs, and they did not know that their neighbors
owned any portion of it. (DUMF 6.) Prior to the construction of their spa,
deck, and planter, none of the owners of the Tizabgar Property advised
Defendants that the rear portion of their backyard was in the Flag Area. (DUMF
8.) Defendants did not even understand that they had an easement involving the
Flag Area. (DUMF 9.) As such, when they constructed the spa, deck and planter,
they had no idea that any section of their backyard was part of Tizabgar
Property’s legal description. (DUMF 9.) They also felt that they did not need
to conduct another survey because all construction would be completely within Defendants’
perceived backyard. (DUMF 12.) If they had known about the Flag Area, Defendants
would have constructed the deck and planter in such a way that no part of it
fell inside the Flag Area regardless of the easement. (DUMF 10.) The owners of
Plaintiffs’ property never spoke to the Abrahams about the Flag Area even
during the construction of the spa. (DUMF 8.) The construction was performed
with all appropriate permits and plan checks by licensed contractors. (DUMF
11.) 
 
Furthermore, when they purchased
their home on July 31, 2014, Defendants were issued a title policy by Chicago
Title Insurance Company. (DUMF 13.) On pages 10 and 11 of the policy, there is
a list of ten different easements affecting the property described in very
brief terms with recording numbers. (DUMF 14.) Some of these easements are for
storm drains, for horticultural, for right of way for road, for utility and
landscaping, for ingress and egress and sanitary sewer, for gas pipelines, for
public power poles and lights, and so on. (Id.) As lay people, Defendants did
not have the training or knowledge to understand these references and determine
that one of them involved the rear of their property. (Id.) It was not until
Defendants received a letter from the Tizabgars dated February 13, 2020, stating
that parts of their deck around the spa and the attached planter were partially
inside the Flag Area, did Defendants acquire this knowledge. (DUMF 16.) Therefore,
there is a dispute of fact as to whether the trespass was innocent. 
 
Next, Plaintiffs contend that the
balance of hardships favor them, as they will be irreparably injured if the
encroachment is not abated. Defendants allege that removing the encroaching
hardscape “could easily amount to many thousands of dollars and upend [their
lives.]” (UMF 41.) Plaintiffs state that (1) Defendants admit that the
encroachment is only a “small sliver;” (2) Mr. Abrahams is personally not sure
what work would be required to remove the encroaching hardscape and has not
received any estimates on how much it would cost to remove it; and (3) Mr.
Abrahams has no explanation for how removing the encroachment would “upend” his
life (UMF 41-42.) Plaintiffs reason that Defendants would only lose a planter,
a few feet of hardscape, and the cost of removing the encroachment. The
Tizabgars have a quote and estimate of $14,600-$25,000 to remove the
encroaching spa/pool hardscape, planter, and tree (UMF 30.) Plaintiffs assert
that this is a small expense compared to their loss of the full use and
enjoyment of their property.
 
Here, Plaintiffs have a specific
use in mind with the property at issue. Specifically, Plaintiffs seek to
complete the repair and service of their waterline which runs underneath the
Flagpole Area. (UMF 28.) The waterline runs underground the length of the
entire Flagpole Area, connecting to the street utility line on N. Norman Place.
(UMF 5.) This is the only pipe that provides water to the Tizabgars. (Id.)
Plaintiffs’ waterline connects to a manhole behind Defendants’ Lot ending at
the city water supply line at a junction box/water meter on the N. Norman Pl.
sidewalk. (UMF 6.)
 
Plaintiffs do not cite any
authority that, as a matter of law, the $25,000 in costs could not be a greatly
disproportionate cost compared to Plaintiffs’ loss of use of the property. First,
Plaintiffs admit that the burden on their property by itself it relatively
small. Plaintiffs show that the encroachment is, at most, only 3.7 feet over
the property line into the Flagpole Area which contains an express easement in
favor of Defendants. (UMF 38-40.) A reasonable fact finder may determine that
this is a relatively small burden on Plaintiffs’ property considering the
entirety of the record.
 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs have not demonstrated
that they must remove the encroachment to finish their work. Plaintiffs contend
that their contractor and expert have stated that finishing the work on the
waterline requires removing not only the pool/spa encroachment, but also a
concrete retaining wall and tree. However, they only cite the declaration of Mark
Tizabgar, which only provides for the perfunctory conclusion that “To fully
repair the waterline to our house, we must remove the encroaching hardscape
area from Defendants’ pool/spa and possibly remove a small retaining wall and a
large tree also in the Flagpole area.” (M. Tizabgar Decl., ¶ 10.) Tizabgar does
not provide any foundation for this opinion. Even if there were foundation for
this opinion, Plaintiffs still do not show that without fixing the full
waterline, Plaintiffs suffer an irreparable injury. Plaintiffs contend that an
incomplete repair to the water source would result in “poor water pressure” and
risk “potential leaks to the downhill part of the Flagpole.” (UMF 28-29.) Plainitffs
do not present authority that poor water pressure and the risk of leaks could
be considered an “irreparable” injury to overcome an equitable easement as a
matter of law.
 
Otherwise, there is a dispute as to
the balancing of hardships and whether there is truly an irreparable injury. Defendants
provide that the encroachments at issue in this action include: 1) a 1-foot
section of a concrete spa deck/patio totaling approximately 5 square feet
(“Deck”); 2) a planter around a portion of the spa deck/patio and Deck filled
with variegated Pittosporum Tenuifolia hedges for privacy (“Planter”); 3) a
sprinkler system/irrigation line that provides water to the Planter (“Planter
Irrigation Lines”); 4) a planter wall or “curb wall” near the back fence (“Curb
Wall”); and 5) a large ash tree (“Ash Tree”). (PUMF 28; DUMF 24.) The Planter
connects to the Deck and the rest of the spa decking. (DUMF 25.) The concrete
Planter retains the soil and creates an area to support the plant material.
(Id.) South of the Planter is the Curb Wall. (DUMF 27.) The Curb Wall is 30
feet long and approximately 8” wide. (Id.) Defendants also emphasize that only
a tiny sliver of the Deck— approximately 5.4 square feet—crosses over and into
the Flag Area and is at its widest approximately 1 foot. (DUMF 26.) The Ash
Tree itself is located mostly on Defendants’ property for at least 60 years.
(DUMF 31.) Defendants describe the tree as beautiful and providing necessary
shade to their backyard, enhancing the landscaping. (DUMF 32.)
 
First, as to the fence, Defendants
present evidence that the fence does not preclude Plaintiffs access to the Flag
Area. When Defendants purchased their property, a wooden fence enclosed the
entire backyard and side yard. (DUMF 3.) On March 25, 2020, in the middle of
the night, Plaintiffs’ agent cut and tore down the chain link fence near the Defendants’
eastern border and left it laying on the ground. (UMF 33; DUMF 17.) In response
to a Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety (“LADBS”) inspector,
Defendants had to install a new fence to fully enclose the backyard. (DUMF
18-19.) The replacement Fence is not locked, basically functions as a shower
curtain, and can easily be unlatched in seconds and slid open by any competent
adult. (DUMF 23.) The Tizabgars can access the Flag Area in the Abrahams’
backyard at any time. (Id.) Defendants repeatedly told Plaintiffs they can
enter the Flag Area to replace their waterline so long as they do not remove
the Improvements or the Ash Tree and give advance warning. (DUMF 36-37.) This
presents a dispute of fact as to whether the entirety of the encroachment could
be considered irreparable, since the encroachment would not deny Plaintiffs
full access to their property. 
 
Defendants also provide evidence
that the Improvements and the Ash Tree do not need to be removed in order for
the Tizabgars to replace their waterline through the Flag Area. (DUMF 38.) Any
modifications that may be needed to install a new waterline to accommodate for
the Improvements and the Ash Tree would be nominal and a de minimis hardship in
comparison to removing the Improvements. (DUMF 39.) Defendants provide for
additional costs that show a disproportionate burden would be placed on them if
forced to remove the encroachment. Defendants provide that the cost to remove
the Ash Tree is $15,000.00. (DUMF 33.) However, the Ash Tree cannot be replaced
due to its size and age. (DUMF 34.) The Ash Tree is valued at approximately
$139,600.00. (Id.) In reply, Plaintiffs represent to the Court that they are
not seeking to remove the Ash Tree, and that they have abandoned any such claim
in the FAC.  (Reply, p. 5.)  
 
Defendants also present evidence
that the costs to install a new pipe in the Flag Area that accommodates for the
Improvements and the Ash Tree is approximately $7,980.00. (DUMF 40.) Pursuant
to the Tizabgars’ evidence, it would cost approximately $5,500.00 for them to
put in a new pipe in the Flag Area. (DUMF 41.) Thus, the hardship to the
Tizabgars to use extra care when installing the new pipe in the Flag Area with
the Improvements and Ash Tree in place is approximately $2,480.00. (DUMF 41.)
According to the moving evidence, the cost to remove the Deck, Planter, and to
relocate the Planter Irrigation Lines could go as high as $25,000.00.
Defendants’ additional evidence shows that, including the value of the lost Ash
Tree that no longer is in issue, Defendants’ total damages suffered would be
approximately $171,535.00 at most. (DUMF 34, 43.)  Without the tree, damages would still exceed
$25,000.00
 
Therefore, there is a dispute of
fact whether Plaintiffs are irreparably injured by the alleged encroachments or
whether the balance of hardships favor Defendants. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
motion to adjudicate the equitable easement affirmative defense is DENIED.
 
Issues 2-6: Each Cause of Action
 
Plaintiffs seek judgment as to all
causes of action because they can establish the underlying property claims, and
that the applicable express easement or potential equitable easement do not
apply to the encroachment at hand. Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ adverse property
claim fails because, as described above, they contend that there is no dispute
that their hardscape extension of their pool/spa area, planter, and related
improvements encroaches in the Tizabgars’ property. As discussed above,
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that the equitable easement defense fails as a
matter of law. Thus, the Court cannot adjudicate the causes of action as
requested.
 
Plaintiffs also assert that the
each cause of action succeeds because the encroachments exceed Defendants’
landscaping easement rights. Plaintiffs must therefore demonstrate that
Defendants’ use exceeds the scope of the express landscaping easement. 
 
Sometime before October 11, 1963,
the then-owners of Plaintiffs’ Property conveyed an easement over the Flagpole Area
to the then-owners of the Defendants’ Property as follows:
 
AN EASEMENT FOR RIGHT OF WAY FOR
LANDSCAPING, HORTICULTURE PURPOSES IN, UNDER, ACROSS AND OVER THAT PORTION OF
SAID LOT 32, INCLUDED WITHIN A STRIP OF LAND 10 FEET WIDE[.] 
 
(UMF 9.) 
 
Plaintiffs provide the dictionary
definition of these terms. Merriam Webster defines “landscape” as “to modify or
ornament (a natural landscape) by altering the plant cover;” and defines
“horticulture” as “the science and art of growing fruits, vegetables, flowers,
or ornamental plants.” (UMF 10.) Plaintiffs argue that the encroachment is
unauthorized, because, based on the dictionary definitions, the concrete pool
deck, concrete planter, and fencing exceed any reasonable interpretation of the
Abrahams’ easement for “landscaping” (“to modify or ornament (a natural
landscape) by altering the plant cover”); or “horticulture” (“the science and
art of growing fruits, vegetables, flowers, or ornamental plants”). Making all
reasonable inferences in favor of the non-moving party, Plaintiffs have not
demonstrated that the use exceeds this express easement. 
 
Landscaping and horticulture would
potentially include the alleged concrete pool deck, concrete planter, and
fencing. Plaintiffs do not present evidence that a reasonable fact finder could
not find the pool deck and planter are modifying or ornamenting the natural
landscape of the backyard, and thus fall within the landscaping easement.
Further, the planter is expressly for horticulture, as the planter houses
ornamental plants. The concrete footprint of the pool is attached to this
planter, and therefore may be viewed as a part of the overall landscaping
effort. Under such facts, a fact finder could conclude that the concrete over
the undisputed property line reasonably fall within the scope of the easement.
To be clear – this is a dispute of fact. Hypothetically and within reason, a
fact finder could view the entirety of concrete footprint as only involving the
pool and not any landscaping or horticulture efforts. On the other hand, a fact
finder could view the concrete as severable from the planter, and thus find
that a portion of the encroachment violates the easement. In summary, this
evidence presents a dispute of material fact as to the intention and extent of
the encroachment. Therefore, Plaintiffs do not meet their initial burden to
show that their claims prevail as a matter of law in light of the express
easement.
 
Even if Plaintiffs met their
initial burden – which they did not – there would be a dispute of material fact
as to whether the landscaping easement applies to the encroachments. Defendants
present evidence that the Improvements and the Ash Tree are completely
consistent with the use allowed in the legal description in the Easement. (PUMF
10; DUMF 30.) For instance, due to the fact that Defendants’ property slopes
down from north to south, the curb wall retains approximately 16 inches of
soil. (Id.) The wall was put in place for erosion and drainage control, to
stabilize the ground and to divert storm water runoff to drains. (DUMF 27-28.)
Without the small curb wall in place, storm water would flow directly under the
wooden fence and onto the downslope neighbor with potentially devastating
results. (DUMF 29.) There is also evidence that the Ash Tree complies with the
“landscaping and horticulture use” easement. (DUMF 31.) Defendants also provide
evidence that the terms “landscaping” and “landscapes” would include (other
than plants) planters (concrete, wood, or other), planter curbs or curb walls,
walkways, patios, decks, decorative stones, and sprinkler systems/irrigation
lines. (DUMF 30.) In addition, drains and drainage systems are part of
“landscaping.” (Id.) Accordingly, there would be a disputed factual issue as to
whether the Improvements are all considered non-structural and simply
“landscaping” under the easement. (Id.)
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.