 Case Number:  23STCP00104    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  85 
Ajah Alvarez v. Silverlake
Auto Body and Paint, 23STCP00104
 
 
Tentative decision on application
for writ of possession: granted
 



 
            Plaintiff
Ajah Alvarez (“Alvarez”) seeks a writ of possession against Defendant Silverlake
Auto Body and Paint (“Silverlake”) to recover a Black 2021 Subaru Crosstrek,
VIN JF2GTAACXM9357581, license plate number 8XTA450 (“Vehicle”).  
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers (no opposition was filed),[1] and
renders the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1.
Complaint
            Plaintiff
Alvarez commenced this proceeding on January 12, 2023 against Defendant Silverlake
for an order releasing the Vehicle from a mechanics lien.  The verified Complaint alleges in pertinent
part as follows.
            Alvarez
is the Vehicle’s owner.  Silverlake
claims to have repaired the Vehicle. 
Silverlake has not recorded a claim of mechanics lien against it.  Alvarez never granted an extension of credit
under Civil Code §8460(b) or filed for relief in federal bankruptcy court.  
            On
December 28, 2022, Alvarez gave Silverlake written notice under Civil Code
section 8482 demanding that Silverlake execute and record a release of the lien
claim.  Silverlake is unwilling to do so
and has not filed an action to enforce the claim of lien.
            Alvarez
seeks a judgment that Silverlake’s lien has expired and is unenforceable under
Civil Code section 8460(a), and releases the Vehicle from the lien.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
January 23, 2023, the court denied Alvarez’s ex parte application for a
writ of possession to recover the Vehicle.
            On
February 9 and 10, 2023, the court denied Alvarez’s second and third ex parte
application for a writ of possession to recover the Vehicle.
            On
February 28, 2023, the court granted Alvarez’s temporary restraining order (“TRO”)
and order to show cause (“OSC”) re: preliminary injunction enjoining Silverlake
for selling, auctioning, leasing or assigning possession of the Vehicle.  The court ordered Alvarez to file
supplemental moving papers with both a declaration under penalty of perjury and
memorandum of points and authorities. 
Alvarez failed to file a memorandum of points and authorities but did
file a supplemental declaration.  She
also filed an application for writ of possession that was not set on 16 court
days’ notice under CCP section 1005 or properly scheduled through the court
clerk.
            On
March 21, 2023, this court granted Alvarez’s application for a preliminary
injunction enjoining Silverlake from selling, auctioning, leasing, or assigning
possession of the Vehicle.
            On
May 18, 2023, Department 25 (Hon. Katherine Chilton) took Alvarez’s petition
for release of a mechanic’s lien off-calendar as moot.
            On
September 20 and 25, 2023, this court denied Alvarez’s ex parte
applications for a writ of possession to recover the Vehicle.  It advised she had waited too long to seek ex
parte relief.
            On
November 9, 2023, Alvarez personally served Silverlake with a copy of the
Complaint and the moving papers for this application.
            Silverlake
has applied to dissolve the preliminary injunction against it.  Department 26 (Hon. Mark Windham) is
scheduled to hear this application on January 29, 2024.          
 
            B.
Applicable Law
            A
writ of possession is available in any pending action.  It also is available where an action has been
stayed pending arbitration, so long as the arbitration award may be ineffectual
without provisional relief.  See CCP §1281.7. 
 
            1. Procedure
            Upon
the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, a plaintiff may apply
for an order for a writ of possession. 
Unlike attachment, where Judicial Council forms are optional, the
parties must use the mandatory approved Judicial Council forms in a claim and
delivery proceeding.  (Judicial Council
Forms CD-100 et seq.).
            A
plaintiff must make a written application for a writ of possession.  CCP §512.010(a), (b); (Mandatory Form
CD-100); CCP §512.010(a).  A verified
complaint alone is insufficient.  6
Witkin, California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §255, p.203.  The application may be supported by
declarations and/or a verified complaint. 
CCP §516.030.  The declarations or
complaint must set forth admissible evidence except where expressly permitted
to be shown on information and belief.  Id.
            The
application must be executed under oath and include: (1) A showing of the basis
of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of
the property claimed.  If the plaintiff's
claim is based on a written instrument, a copy of it must be attached; (2) A
showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, how the
defendant came into possession of it, and, the reasons for the detention based
on the plaintiff’s best knowledge, information, and belief; (3) A specific description
of the property and statement of its value; (4) The location of the property
according to the plaintiff’s best knowledge, information, and belief.  If the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing of probable cause to believe that the property is located there; and
(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for (a) a tax, assessment,
or fine, pursuant to a statute, or (b) an execution against the plaintiff’s
property.  Alternatively, a statement
that if the property was seized for one of these purposes, it is by statute
exempt from such seizure.  CCP
§512.010(b).
 
            2. The Hearing
            Before
noticing a hearing, the plaintiff must serve the defendant with all of the
following: (1) A copy of the summons and complaint; (2) A Notice of Application
and Hearing; and (3) A copy of the application and any supporting
declaration.  CCP §512.030(a).  If the defendant has not appeared in the
action, service must be made in the same manner as service of summons and
complaint.  CCP §512.030(b).
            Each
party shall file with the court and serve upon the other party any declarations
and points and authorities intended to be relied upon at the hearing.  CCP §512.050. 
At the hearing, the court decides the merits of the application based on
the pleadings and declarations.   Id.  Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
receive and consider additional evidence and authority presented at the
hearing, or may continue the hearing for the production of such additional
evidence, oral or documentary, or the filing of other affidavits or points and
authorities.  Id.  
            The
court may order issuance of a writ of possession if both of the following are
found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the
plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property; and (2) The undertaking
requirements of CCP section 515.010 are satisfied.  CCP §512.060(a).  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  CCP
§511.090.  This requires that the
plaintiff establish a prima facie case; the writ shall not issue if the
defendant shows a reasonable probability of a successful defense to the claim
and delivery cause of action.  Witkin,
California Procedure, (5th ed. 2008) §261, p.208.  A defendant’s claim of defect in the property
is not a defense to the plaintiff’s right to possess it.  RCA Service Co. v. Superior Court,
(1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 1, 3.
            No
writ directing the levying officer to enter a private place to take possession
of any property may be issued unless the plaintiff has established that there
is probable cause to believe that the property is located there.  CCP §512.060(b).  
            The
successful plaintiff may obtain a preliminary injunction containing the same
provisions as a TRO that remains in effect until the property is seized by the
levying officer.[2]  CCP §513.010(c).  
            The
court may also issue a “turnover order” directing the defendant to transfer
possession of the property to the plaintiff (See Mandatory Form CD-120). 
The order must notify the defendant that failure to comply may subject
him or her to contempt of court.  CCP
§512.070.  The turnover remedy is not
issued in lieu of a writ, but in conjunction with it to provide the plaintiff
with a less expensive means of obtaining possession.  See
Edwards v Superior Court, (“Edwards”) (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173,
178.
 
            3. The Plaintiff’s Undertaking
            Generally,
the court cannot issue an order for a writ of possession until the plaintiff
has filed an undertaking with the court (Mandatory Form CD-140 for personal
sureties).  CCP §515.010(a).  The undertaking shall provide that the
sureties are bound to the defendant for the return of the property to the
defendant, if return of the property is ordered, and for the payment to the
defendant of any sum recovered against the plaintiff.  Id. 
The undertaking shall be in an amount not less than twice the value of
the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.  Id. 
The value of the defendant's interest in the property is determined by
the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on any
conditional sales contract or security agreement and all liens and encumbrances
on the property, and any other factors necessary to determine the defendant’s
interest in the property.  Id.
            However,
where the defendant has no interest in the property, the court must waive the
requirement of the plaintiff’s undertaking and include in the order for
issuance of the writ the amount of the defendant’s undertaking sufficient to
satisfy the requirements of CCP section 515.020(b).  CCP §515.010(b). 
 
            4.
Lien Sale
            A
person has a lien on a vehicle for repair services and storage, subject to
limitations.  Civil Code §3068(a).  The lien arises after a written statement for
charges for completed work or services is given to the vehicle’s registered
owner or 15 days after the work or services are completed, whichever occurs
first.  Ibid.  The lien is extinguished 30 days after it
arises unless the lienholder either applies to the DMV for an authorization to
conduct the sale or files a court action before then.  Civil Code §3068(b)(1)(A).  
            A
lien in excess of $1500 for work performed, and in excess of $1025 for any
storage of the vehicle, is invalid unless written consent of the vehicle’s
legal owner or lessor was obtained before the work was performed or the storage
occurred.  Civil Code §3068(c)(1).  The “legal owner” is defined as a person
holding a security interest in a vehicle which is subject to UCC.  Civil Code §3067; Vehicle Code §370.   The lien shall be extinguished if the
vehicle’s legal owner or lessor tenders, by cashier’s check or cash, the amount
for storage, safekeeping, or parking space rental to which the lienholder is
entitled under Civil Code section 3068(c). 

            The
lienholder shall apply to the DMV for authorization to conduct a liens sale for
any vehicle with a value more than $4000. 
Civil Code §3071(a).  For a
vehicle valued at $4000 or less, the lienholder shall apply to the DMV for the
names and addresses of the registered and legal owners and notify them of a
pending lien sale.  Civil Code §3071(a),
(b).  If the DMV receives a timely
Declaration of Opposition form, it shall notify the lienholder within 16 days
of receipt of the form that a lien sale shall not be conducted unless the
lienholder files an action in court within 30 days of the DMV’s notice.  Civil Code §3071(d).  Any lien sale shall be void if the lienholder
does not comply with this requirement. 
Civil Code §3071(l).
            
            C. Statement of Facts 
            In
November 2022, Alvarez’s insurance company commissioned Silverlake to make
repairs on the Vehicle.  Alvarez Decl.,
¶4.  Before Alvarez dropped off the car,
the manager repeatedly assured her that she would not owe anything for the
repairs.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4.  He explained the insurance company pays for
everything before Silverlake starts repairs, which is how Silverlake affords
the parts needed.  Alvarez Decl.,
¶4.  He provided a page of the AAA
insurance estimate approval showing an estimated repair total of $3,251.03, all
of which her insurance would pay.   Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.
            When
Alvarez dropped off the car, Silverlake gave her a blank invoice to sign.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  She hesitated because she knew Silverlake could
add text later to make it look like she agreed to charges.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4.  She asked Silverlake to write that she owed
no balance, and it wrote that on the top of the invoice.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4.  
            The
pink carbon copy of the invoice is mostly blank, with the faint outline of
“$3,251.03” in the middle.  Alvarez
Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  It does not reflect
what was written on the top of the original invoice because the page was
lifted.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  Form provisions warn of storage fees of $195
per day.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  The address on the invoice is 2849 Rowena
Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90039.  Alvarez
Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  
            On
December 27, 2022, Silverlake’s manager called Alvarez and said the Vehicle was
ready but there was an outstanding balance. 
Alvarez Decl., ¶4.  Alvarez called
her insurance company to confirm the balance. 
Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  She then tried
to call Silverlake multiple times that day to settle the issue.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  The representative who answered the phone
said only the manager could help, but he was busy, then at lunch, then out for
the day.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.
            On
the representative’s advice, Alvarez called the next day.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  When she did so, the manager said that Silverlake
had added $500 in two days of storage fees and a $175 lien fee for a total of
$675.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  This was less than 24 hours after Silverlake had
finished the Vehicle repairs.  Alvarez
Decl., ¶5.  Silverlake also demanded cash
payment and said it would add $250 for every additional day of storage.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  This made repayment almost impossible.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  
            The
DMV Vehicle History Report shows on May 12, 2023, Silverlake submitted a lien
sale application.  Alvarez Decl., ¶2, Exs.
A-B.  The DMV did not send Alvarez notice
(“Lien Sale Notice”) until after May 18, 2023, when Department 25 dismissed Alvarez’s
petition to remove a lien sale as moot for failure to show that there was a
lien to remove.  Alvarez Decl., ¶2, Ex. B.  
            The
Lien Sale Notice listed the date the owner was billed or Vehicle towed as
February 22, 2023, which was false.  Alvarez
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 7, Ex. B.  It asserts
outstanding repair fees of $1,239.21, outstanding storage fees of $3,750, and a
daily accrual rate of $250 in additional storage fees.  Alvarez Decl., Ex. B.  Alvarez signed a Declaration of Opposition on
May 24, 2023.  Alvarez Decl., Ex. B. 
            Silverlake
did not provide a list of repairs and costs before the service, except for a
blank invoice reflecting that her insurance would pay for everything.  Alvarez Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  It therefore failed to comply with requirements
to create a valid lien under Civil Code section 3068 et. seq.  Alvarez Decl., ¶8.
            The
lack of a car for 11 months has subjected Alvarez to great financial
strain.  Alvarez Decl., ¶3.  She has now failed to make three payments on the
Vehicle, so it is subject to repossession by lienholder Wells Fargo.  Alvarez Decl., ¶3.  
            Alvarez
seeks an order for Silverlake to (1) transfer the Vehicle; (2) pay for its full
inspection at a Subaru dealership to confirm the Vehicle is intact, is fully operational,
and has all its original Subaru parts; (3) pay for any damage the Subaru inspection
reveals; and (4) pay Alvarez $1,750 to compensate her for expenses, costs, and
losses she incurred in representing herself in this matter.  Alvarez Decl., ¶9.  Alvarez is entitled to $1,750 in damages
under Civil Code section 3068(d).  Alvarez
Decl., ¶9.  
 
            D.
Analysis
            Plaintiff
Alvarez seeks a writ of possession for the Vehicle again Silverlake.  
 
            1.
Jurisdiction
            On
November 9, 2023, Alvarez personally served Silverlake with a copy of the
original Complaint with the moving papers for this application.  No proof of service for the Summons is on file.  However, Silverlake has made several appearances in
this action.  Most recently, it has applied
to dissolve the preliminary injunction enjoining it from selling, auctioning,
leasing, or assigning possession of the Vehicle.  It also opposed the application for a
preliminary injunction heard by the court in March 2023.  
 
            2.
Merits
            a.
Mechanic’s Lien
            A
person performing repairs has a lien on a vehicle for the services and for
storage subject to limitations.  Civil
Code §3068(a).  The lien arises after a
written statement for charges is given to the vehicle’s registered owner or 15
days after the work or services are completed. 
Ibid.  
            A
lien in excess of $1500 for work performed, and in excess of $1025 for any
storage of the vehicle, is invalid unless written consent of the vehicle’s
legal owner or lessor was obtained before the work was performed or the storage
occurred.  Civil Code §3068(c)(1).  
            The
lien is extinguished unless the lienholder either applies to the DMV for an
authorization to conduct the sale or files a court action within 30 days after
the lien arises.  Civil Code
§3068(b)(1)(A).  The lienholder shall
apply to the DMV for authorization to conduct a liens sale for any vehicle with
a value more than $4000.  Civil Code
§3071(a).  For a vehicle valued at $4000
or less, the lienholder shall apply to the DMV for the names and addresses of
the registered and legal owners and notify them of a pending lien sale.  Civil Code §3071(a), (b).  If the DMV receives a timely Declaration of
Opposition form, it shall notify the lienholder within 16 days of receipt of
the form that a lien sale shall not be conducted unless the lienholder files an
action in court within 30 days of the DMV’s notice.  Civil Code §3071(d).  Any lien sale shall be void if the lienholder
does not comply with these requirements. 
Civil Code §3071(l).
            Alvarez
asserts that Silverlake assured her when she dropped off the Vehicle for
repairs that she would owe nothing because insurance would pay for it all.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4.  It provided a page of the AAA insurance
estimate approval showing an estimated repair total of $3,251.03, all of which
insurance would pay.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4,
Ex. C.  Silverlake also gave her a blank
invoice to sign.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex.
D.  She asserts that Silverlake wrote that
she owed no balance on the top of the invoice per her request.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4.    
            Alvarez
admits that her pink carbon copy of the invoice does not reflect that Silverlake
wrote she owed nothing for the repairs.  Alvarez
Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  She explains that this
is the case because the page was lifted. 
Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  The
middle of the pink copy does appear to read “$3,251.03.”  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  This does not contradict her argument because
that is the amount she says Silverlake expected her insurance to pay.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.  As Silverlake fails to oppose, Alvarez’s
evidence that Silverlake promised that her insurance would cover the entire
cost of repair is uncontradicted.
            Alvarez
asserts that when the repairs were completed on December 27, 2022, Silverlake
told her that it would not release the Vehicle because of an outstanding
balance.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4.  Alvarez called her insurance to confirm the
balance.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  She then tried to call Silverlake’s manager
to settle the issue.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  When she reached him, the manager told her that
it had added $500 in two days’ storage fees and a $175 lien fee for a total of
$675.  Alvarez Decl., ¶5.  
            Alvarez
asserts that she received no notice that she would owe repair and storage fees,
and any lien Silverlake asserts is automatically void.  Mem. at 1. 
Not so.  Even without prior
consent, a lien can be valid for up to $1500 in repairs and $1025 for
storage.  Civil Code §3068(c)(1).  This limit on storage fees might not apply
because the invoice warned Alvarez of storage fees of $195 per day.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  Alvarez admits that she signed this invoice,
and the insurance estimate approval did not say whether her insurance would cover
storage fees accrued after the repairs were complete.  Alvarez Decl., ¶4, Ex. D.  
            The
court need not discuss this in detail.  Even
if Alvarez owes storage fees (or even repair costs) in some amount, Silverlake
has no lien on the Vehicle to collect it. 
DMV records show Silverlake did not apply to conduct a lien sale until
May 12, 2023.  Alvarez Decl., ¶2, Exs.
A-B.  The Lien Sale Notice listed the
date the owner was billed as February 22, 2023, which Alvarez asserts was
false.  Alvarez Decl., ¶¶ 2, 7, Ex. B.  Even if that date is correct, Silverlake only
had until March 22, 2023 to apply for a lien sale.  See Civil Code §3068(b)(1)(A).  Its failure to do so until more than a month
later extinguished the lien.  Civil Code
§3068(b)(1)(A).
 
            3. Order to Enter Private
Property
            No
writ directing the levying officer to enter a private place to take possession
of any property may be issued unless the plaintiff has established that there
is probable cause to believe that the property is located there.  CCP §512.060(b).  
            Alvarez
seeks a writ directing the levying officer to enter 2849 Rowena Avenue, Los
Angeles, CA 90039, or in any storage facilities Silverlake owns.  Storage facilities would be commercial
properties, which the levying officer may enter.  CCP §512.060(b).  Although it does not appear to be a private
address, the levying officer may enter even if it is.
 
            4. Undertaking
            The undertaking shall be in an
amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount.  CCP §515.010(a).  Alvarez does not offer to post an
undertaking, but none is necessary.  Silverlake’s
lien has been extinguished and Silverlake has no legal interest in the
Vehicle.  Therefore, no undertaking is
required.  CCP §515.010(b).
 
            5.
Remedies
            Alvarez
seeks an order for Silverlake to (1) transfer the Vehicle; (2) pay for its full
inspection at a Subaru dealership to confirm the Vehicle is intact, is fully
operational, and has all its original Subaru parts; (3) pay for any damage the
Subaru inspection reveals; and (4) pay Alvarez $1,750 to compensate her for
expenses, costs, and losses she incurred in representing herself in this
matter.  Alvarez Decl., ¶9.  She asserts she is entitled to $1,750 in
damages under Civil Code section 3068(d). 
Alvarez Decl., ¶9.
            The
court may issue a turnover order directing the defendant to transfer possession
of the property to the plaintiff (See Mandatory Form CD-120).  The
order must notify the defendant that failure to comply may subject him or her
to contempt of court.  CCP §512.070.  The turnover remedy is not
issued in lieu of a writ, but in conjunction with it to provide the plaintiff
with a less expensive means of obtaining possession.  See Edwards,
supra, 230 Cal.App.3d at 178.  The request for a
turnover order is granted to compel Silverlake to transfer the Vehicle.  The other requests for relief are denied.
 
            E.
Conclusion
            The
application for a writ of possession and turnover order for the Vehicle is
granted.  The levying officer may enter 2849
Rowena Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90039 even if it is a private residence, as well as
any commercial or public address. 
Alvarez has not submitted a proposed order and is directed to do so in
two court days or it will be waived.    


