 Case Number:  23STCP00620    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  85 
Marlene
Virgen v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, 23STCP00620


Tentative
decision on both petitions for leave to file late claim: denied




 
            Petitioner Marlene Virgen (“Virgen”)
seeks leave to present a late claim for damages against Respondent Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“MTA”).  In a related action, she seeks leave to
present a late claim for damages against Respondent City of Compton (“City”).
            The court has read and considered
the moving papers, oppositions, and reply, and renders the following tentative
decision.
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1. Virgen v. MTA
            Petitioner Virgen commenced this
action on February 28, 2023, seeking leave to present a late claim for damages against
MTA.  The unverified Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows.
            On July 29, 2021, Reymundo Diaz Pena
(“Raymundo”) was on his motorcycle with his helmet on at the intersection of
Willowbrook Avenue and Compton Boulevard in Compton, CA. (“Intersection”).  Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
(“LASD”) Deputy Jessica Barlow (“Barlow”) drove her patrol car over the speed
limit without any emergency response indicators and struck and killed Raymundo at
the Intersection.
            On August 3, 2021, Raymundo’s
mother, Virgen, retained counsel to bring a wrongful death action.  On November 8, 2021, she initiated a wrongful
death and negligence action against Barlow and the County of Los Angeles
(“County”) as Barlow’s employer.  That
case, Virgen v. County of Los Angeles, et al. (“Virgen v. County”),
Case No. 21STCV41151, is ongoing in Department 30.
            On May 19, 2022, the County sent
Virgen surveillance video of the collision and moments prior from the adjacent
gas station.  Virgen hired engineers on
June 1, 2022, who conducted a site inspection on July 10, 2022.  They discovered the Intersection was
dangerous and had traffic controls with contradictory instructions, directions,
or indicators to users. Upon review of the preliminary collision investigation
findings, Virgen determined there was a viable claim for dangerous conditions on
public property against those owners and operators.  She believes MTA owns, controls, or operates
the Intersection.
            Virgen completed and submitted a Claim
for Damages form with MTA on July 22, 2022. 
Virgen also submitted to MTA a written application for permission to
present a late claim for damages.  The
application to present a late claim was timely as it was within one year of the
incident.
            MTA did not respond within 45 days
of the claim, or by September 5, 2022.  As
a result, it was denied on that day as a matter of law under Government Code
section 911.6(c).  This gave Virgen until
March 5, 2023 to file this Petition for leave to file an action.
            Virgen’s counsel diligently pursued
the pertinent facts of the cause of this incident to identify possible
defendants and causes of action.  Her failure
to file a claim against MTA before six months passed was due to mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect.  MTA would not face prejudice if leave to file
an action against it was granted.  Virgen
asks for leave to file the Complaint attached to her Petition.
 
            2. Virgen v. City
            The court has related this case to Virgen
v. City of Compton, (“Virgen v. City”), Case No. 23STCP00622, also filed
on February 28, 2023, which seeks leave to present a late claim for damages
against the City.  The Petition alleges
in pertinent part as follows.
            The July 10, 2022 investigation of
the Intersection and surveillance tapes led Virgen to conclude she had a viable
claim for dangerous conditions on public property against the owners and
operators of the Intersection.  This
included the City.
            Virgen completed and submitted a Claim
for Damages form with the City on July 25, 2022.  Virgen also submitted a written application
for permission to present a late claim for damages.  The application to present a late claim was
timely as within one year of the incident.
            The City did not respond within 45
days of the claim, or by September 8, 2022. 
As a result, it was denied on that day as a matter of law under
Government Code section 911.6(c). This gave Virgen until March 8, 2023 to file
this Petition for leave to file an action.
            Virgen’s counsel diligently pursued
the pertinent facts of the cause of this incident to identify possible
defendants and causes of action.  Her failure
to file a claim against the City before six months passed was due to mistake,
inadvertence, surprise and/or excusable neglect.  The City would not face prejudice if leave to
file an action against it was granted. 
Virgen asks for leave to file the Complaint attached to her Petition.
 
            3. Course of Proceedings
            On March 8, 2023, Virgen filed a
notice of related cases Virgen v. County and Virgen v. City.
            On March 9, 2023, Virgen served MTA
the Petition in Virgen v. MTA and Notice of Related Cases.
            On March 13, 2023, Virgen served the
City with the Petition in Virgen v. MTA, the Petition in Virgen v.
City, and Notice of Related Cases.
            On May 9, 2023, the court
consolidated Virgen v. MTA and Virgen v. City.  It ordered Virgen to file joint opening and
reply briefs.
 
            B. Applicable Law
            Under the Government Claims Act (the
“Act”), a plaintiff bringing suit for monetary damages against a public entity
or employees thereof must first present a claim to the public entity
(“government claim”) which must be acted upon or deemed rejected by the public
entity.  Govt. Code[1]
§§ 945.4, 950.2, 950.6(a).  To be timely,
a government claim for damages must be presented to the public entity within six
months of the date the cause of action accrued. 
§911.2. 
            If a plaintiff fails to file a
government claim within the six-month period, he or she may apply to the public
entity for permission to file a late claim. 
§911.4.  Such an application must
be presented within a reasonable time, and not later than one year after the
cause of action’s accrual.  §911.4(b).  
            If the public entity denies the
application for permission to file a late claim, the plaintiff may file a civil
petition for relief from section 945.4's requirement of timely claim
presentation prior to suit.  §946.6.  The petition must be filed within six months
after the application to the public entity is denied or deemed to be
denied.  §946.6(b). The petition must
show: (1) that an application was made to the public entity under section 911.4
and was denied or deemed denied; (2) the reason for failure to timely present
the claim to the public entity within the time limit specified in section
911.2; and (3) the information required by section 910.  §946.6(b).




            The court shall grant relief only if
it finds that (1) the application to the public entity for leave to file a late
claim was made within a reasonable time not to exceed one year after accrual of
the claim as specified in section 911.4(b), (2) was denied or deemed denied by
the public agency pursuant to section 911.6, and (3) one or more of the
following is applicable: (a) the failure to timely present the claim was
through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, unless the
public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the
claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of section
945.4; (b) the person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss was a
minor during all of the time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of
the claim; (c) the person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss was
physically or mentally incapacitated during all of the time specified in
section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by reason of that
disability failed to present a claim during that time; or (d) the person who
sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss died before the expiration of the
time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim.  §946.6(c).
 
            C. Statement of Facts
            1. Virgen’s Evidence
            a. Incident
            Marlene is the mother of Raymundo, who
died in a collision on July 29, 2021. 
Flores Decl., ¶2.  The
Intersection at issue is Willowbrook Avenue and Compton Boulevard in the
City.  Flores Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.  Compton Boulevard runs east to west.  Flores Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.  Willowbrook Avenue runs north to south and
has railroad tracks running parallel to it and across Compton Boulevard.  Flores Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.
            LASD Deputy Robbert Apodaca’s
(“Apodaca”) Traffic Collision Report (“Traffic Report”) and Supplement thereto
(“Supplemental Report”) issued on December 20, 2021 narrate the collision.  Flores Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2.  LASD Deputy Jeaton Wilson’s (“Wilson”)
supplemental narrative on March 22, 2022 adds additional information.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.
            The reports assert that at 4:00 p.m.
on July 29, 2021, Barlow was travelling southbound on West Willowbrook Avenue
on her way to the LASD Compton Station nearby. 
Flores Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6, Exs. 2, 4. 
She was driving 44 miles per hour 9 (“mph”), nine mph above the speed
limit, when she entered the Intersection with the light yellow for her
direction.  Flores Decl., ¶4, Exs. 2, 3, 6.  
            At the same time, Raymundo made a
right-hand turn on his motorcycle from East Willowbrook Avenue going southbound
to Compton Boulevard.  Flores Decl., ¶¶ 4,
7, Exs. 2, 5.  Barlow collided with him
at about 26 miles per hour.  Flores
Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2.  
            Deputy Wilson’s narrative states that
she talked to Lupe Montalvo (“Montalvo”), the City’s lead employee about the traffic
control devices.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex.
3.  He said the signals at the Intersection
were in working order.  Flores Decl., ¶5,
Ex. 3.  The lights phase together except
when the MTA train passes or when vehicles are in left turn bays.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.  Montalvo gave additional details as to the
timing of the lights.  Flores Decl., ¶5,
Ex. 3.  
            Wilson admitted that in her City
travels she sometimes notices the traffic signals are not easily noticeable at
select angles.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Exs. 3,
14.  This could have been the case for
Raymundo as well.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex.
3, 14.  
 
            b. Investigation
            Virgen did not have the full facts
and circumstances surrounding the collision until May 19, 2022, when she
received a surveillance video from a Chevron gas station on the Intersection.  Flores Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.  
She hired engineers on June 1, 2022, who uncovered further
evidence of the City’s and MTA’s role in contributing to the collision.  Flores Decl., ¶8.  The engineers conducted a site inspection on July
10.  Flores Decl., ¶8.  They discovered the Intersection was
dangerous and had traffic controls with contradictory instructions, directions,
or indicators to users.  Flores Decl.,
¶8.  
            Virgen and her counsel diligently
pursued the pertinent facts of the cause of the fatal collision and did not perceive
of a possible claim against the City and MTA based on the dangerous conditions
of public property.  Flores Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.  A such no government claim was filed against the
City or MTA within six months filing window. 
Flores Decl., 9.  This failure was
excusable because there was no readily available information from which the
potential liability of the City and MTA could be discovered until Virgen
obtained video discovery in Virgen v. County, hired engineers to study
the collision, and conducted discovery in Virgen v. County.  Flores Decl., ¶9.
 
            c. Filings
            On July 22, 2022, UPS delivered
Virgen’s claim for money damages and application for permission to present a
late claim against MTA.  Flores Decl.,
Exs. 10-12.
            On July 25, 2022, UPS delivered
Virgen’s claim for money damages and application for permission to present a
late claim to the City.  Flores Decl.,
Exs. 7-9.  
 
            d. Depositions
            Pertinent deposition testimony from Virgen
v. County is as follows. 
 
            (1). Apodaca
            Virgen deposed Apodaca on March 9,
2023.  Flores Decl., ¶16, Ex. 13.  Conversations with Wilson informed Apodaca there
had been crashes at that Intersection. 
Ex. 13.  Apodaca did not conclude
it was a problem Intersection.  Ex.
13.  He did not know how many accidents
had occurred, only that many accident reports were written about that
Intersection.  Ex. 13.  
 
            (2). Ramirez
            Virgen deposed LASD Deputy Matthew
Ramirez (“Ramirez”) on April 13, 2023.  Flores
Decl., ¶18, Ex. 15.  Ramirez has
investigated six collisions at the Intersection before the one that killed
Raymundo.  Ex. 15.  
            Ramirez could not remember a
specific moment where he had trouble identifying a traffic light’s color in the
City.  Ex. 15.  However, a lot of the lights are either not
functioning or have some other problem.  Ex. 15. 
Every intersection with a train track has two sets of traffic lights,
but drivers do not realize that.  Ex.
15.  They will pass through the first
light when green, try to avoid stopping on the tracks, then continue past the
second light which they cannot read.  Ex.
15.  
            In Ramirez’s experience
investigating collisions at the Intersection, many people who turn onto Compton
Boulevard express confusion and fear of potentially getting trapped within the
railroad gates.  Ex. 15.  This causes them to continue the turn after
they see one green light on the side of the tracks they were coming from.  Ex. 15. 

            Ramirez has never voiced this
concern to his superiors, and he does not know if any LASD officers have shared
this concern with the City.  Ex. 15.  When people involved in collisions have
raised a concern, Ramirez has just told them to contact the City.  Ex. 15. 

 
            (3). Wilson
            Virgen deposed Wilson on May 22,
2023.  Flores Decl., ¶17, Ex. 14.  Wilson has pulled over people for running red
lights at that Intersection.  Ex.
14.  They explained that they were
concerned that they could be trapped in the Intersection when the cross-arms
come down and a train is coming.  Ex.
14.  Wilson has had to explain a train is
not coming because traffic signals are designed to help people get off
safely.  Ex. 14.  
            Wilson has not heard people talk
about traffic lights whose current color is only distinguishable from a minimum
distance.  Ex. 14.  The color of the light at this Intersection becomes
indistinguishable after a driver is within 30 or 50 feet.  Ex. 14. 

            The traffic lights for east and
westbound Compton Boulevard are difficult for a driver to see when on the MTA
track.  Ex. 14.  They are visible as a driver approaches the
Intersection, but not after someone has entered it.  Ex. 14. 

 
            e. Relief
            Virgen has drafted the complaint she
seeks to file against MTA.  Flores Decl.,
Ex. 17.  
 
            2. Respondents’ Evidence
            Virgen has asserted Raymundo, the
motorcyclist, entered the Intersection on a red light out of fear he would be
caught on the train tracks on Willowbrook Avenue.  Levine Decl., ¶2. 
            On August 5, 2021, Raymundo’s son
Adrian (“Adrian”) presented a claim for damages against the County.  Levine Decl., ¶6, Ex. B.  He alleged the Intersection constituted a
dangerous condition of public property, but he was vague as to how.  Ex. B. 

            On August 18, 2021, Virgen’s counsel
sent a preservation of evidence letter to the Chevron gas station opposite the Intersection.  Levine Decl., ¶4, Ex. A.  It advised the station not to destroy,
conceal, or alter any video footage related to the collision.  Ex. A.
            On October 9, 2021, the County
coroner printed Raymundo’s autopsy report. 
Levine Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  Its
summary finding asserted that he was riding a motorcycle when he ran a red
traffic light and was struck by a patrol vehicle.  Ex. C. 

            The Traffic Report with the
Supplemental Report and including a surveillance video, was printed on December
20, 2021.  Levine Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  They share the Case Number 021-08548-2835-470.  Levine Decl., ¶8, Ex. D.  The copy of the Supplemental Report Virgen
attached to her moving papers includes only nine of its 16 pages.  Roberts Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.  
            The Supplemental Report includes a
diagram of the railroad tracks on the Intersection.  Levine Decl., ¶8, Ex. D (Supplemental Report
at pp. 7-8).  It also includes a two-page
“Video Analysis” based on footage from the roof of the Chevron gas
station.  Roberts Decl., ¶2, Ex. A;
Supplemental Report at pp. 13-14.  Its
time-stamped description notes that Raymundo made a right turn onto Compton
Boulevard when there was a red light. 
Supplemental Report at p. 13.  It notes
that it was difficult to see the signal lights in the video.  Roberts Decl., ¶2, Ex. A; Supplemental Report
at p. 14.
            No evidence suggests Virgen
inspected the Intersection of the MTA tracks at the scene before she received
the video footage on May 19, 2022. 
Levine Decl., ¶5.  She has not
explained the “important details” the video revealed (Levine Decl., ¶9), why her
engineers’ expert opinion was not available before June 1, 2022 (Levine Decl.,
¶10), or what evidence they uncovered (Levine Decl., ¶10).
             On July 7, 2023, Virgen served responses to MTA’s
Requests for Production of Documents (“RFP”). 
Roberts Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.  RFP No.
6 asked for any evidence or reference to scheduling inspections of the
Intersection within six months of the collision.  Roberts Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.  Virgen replied she had not found any yet, but
that discovery was ongoing.  Roberts
Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.  
            RFP No. 11 asked for any Traffic
Collision Report, police report, or other incident report Virgen had received
from the date of the Incident to February 1, 2022.  Roberts Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.  Virgen produced “Traffic Collision Report no.
021-08548-2835-470” and Apodaca’s report. 
Roberts Decl., ¶4, Ex. C.     
            Virgen produced the autopsy report,
the Traffic Report, and the Supplemental Report in response to discovery in Virgen
v. County on August 14, 2023.  Levine
Decl., ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. C-D.
            Virgen’s application to file a late
claim with MTA was timely filed on July 25, 2022.  Levine Decl., ¶11.  Because it was denied as a matter of law on
September 8, 2022, she had six months after that date to file a petition in
court.  Levine Decl., ¶12.  She filed the Petition in Virgen v. MTA
on March 15, 2023.  Levine Decl., ¶12.
            Virgen v. County is currently
set for trial on January 16, 2024. 
Roberts Decl., ¶3, Ex. B.
 
            3. Reply Evidence
            Raymundo’s death on July 29, 2021,
was one of the most emotionally painful events of Virgen’s life.  Virgen Decl., ¶3.  She knew the other party to the collision was
an LASD deputy.  Virgen Decl., ¶3.  Law enforcement was likely to withhold
information when a matter involves one of its own.  Virgen Decl., ¶3.  She knew she would need counsel’s help to
obtain information and get justice for her son. 
Virgen Decl., ¶3.  
            Virgen retained counsel on August 3,
2021.  Carrillo Decl., ¶2.  On August 4, 2021, her counsel Michael
Carrillo, Esq. (“Carrillo”) conducted a site visit and noticed surveillance
cameras on structures at the Intersection. 
Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  This led him
to send a preservation letter to the Chevron gas station on August 18, 2021.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  This preservation letter was the only
available remedy in the time shortly after the collision.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  
            All Carrillo knew at the time was a
deputy and Raymundo has collided at that Intersection.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  He did not know the direction Raymundo came
from, the speed of each vehicle, or the conditions of the Intersection at the
time of the crash.  Carrillo Decl.,
¶3.  Without information on the vehicles’
path of travel, he had no reason to believe the Intersection contributed to the
collision.  Carrillo Decl., ¶4.  Carrillo needed the video footage to
determine how the collision occurred. 
Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  
            Chevron refused to produce the video.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  Carrillo only obtained a copy of the video after
Virgen v. County began.  Carrillo
Decl., ¶3.  
            Carrillo does not have the specialized
training in accident reconstruction or traffic engineering necessary to determine
and identify potentially dangerous conditions. 
Carrillo Decl., ¶4.  His firm
hired experts, who conducted a site inspection in July 2022.  Carrillo Decl., ¶4.  It was apparent to them that the Intersection
design and construction contributed to the collision.  Carrillo Decl., ¶4.  Their preliminary conclusions led counsel to pursue
claims against the City and MTA. 
Carrillo Decl., ¶4.  
            Virgen has lived in Rancho Cucamonga
for ten years.  Virgen Decl., ¶4.  She was unfamiliar with the Intersection and
had no reason at first to suspect its layout contributed to the collision.  Virgen Decl., ¶4.  She only learned this when her attorneys told
her.  Virgen Decl., ¶5.  
 
            D. Analysis
            Petitioner Virgen seeks leave from
claim filing requirements to the City and MTA based on Raymundo’s fatal
collision at the Intersection.
            
            1. Accrual of the Claim
            A cause of action accrues at the
time a claim is complete with all of its elements.  Norgart v. Upjohn, (1999) 21 Cal.4th
383, 397.  An exception to this usual
rule exists where accrual is delayed until the plaintiff discovers, or has
reason to discover, the cause of action. 
Id.  A plaintiff has reason
to discover a cause of action when he or she “has reason to at least suspect a
factual basis for its elements.”  Id.             
            The collision occurred on July 29,
2021.  Flores Decl., ¶2.  Virgen’s claim accrued on that date.
 
            2. Presentation of the Claim
            Section 911.2 mandates that claims
based on causes of action for death and personal injury must be presented “not
later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.”  To be timely, Virgen was required to present her
claim to any agency within six months of July 29, 2021, or by January 29, 2022.  §911.2.
            Virgen’s claim was due six months
after July 29, 2021, or by January 29, 2022. 
She filed her claim against MTA on July 22, 2022 and her claim against
the City on July 25, 2022.  Flores Decl.,
Exs. 7-12.  Both claims were untimely.
 
            3. Application for Leave to
Present a Late Claim
            If a plaintiff fails to file a
government claim within the six-month period, he or she may apply to the public
entity for permission to file a late claim.  §911.4. 
Such an application must be presented within a reasonable time, and not
later than one year after the cause of action’s accrual.  §911.4(b). 

            Because the cause of action accrued on
July 29, 2021, Virgen’s application for leave to file a late claim was due by July
29, 2022.  Flores Decl., ¶2.  Virgen submitted her applications to file
late claims with her claims on July 22 and 25, 2022.  Flores Decl., Exs. 7-12.  
            This was within one year of the
accrual date, but the City asserts that the delay was not reasonable.  The City cites Carrasco v. Craft, (“Carrasco”)
(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 796, 805, which held that what qualifies as a reasonable
time in any case depends upon the circumstances of that particular case.  City Opp. at 9.  As this issue is similar to the issue of excusable
neglect, it is addressed post. 
            
            4. The Petition is Timely



            If the public entity denies the
application for permission to file a late claim, the plaintiff may file a civil
petition for relief from section 945.4’s requirement of timely claim
presentation prior to suit.  §946.6.  The petition must be filed within six months
after the application to the public entity is denied or deemed to be
denied.  §946.6(b).
            Because neither MTA nor the City
responded to the late claim applications, they were denied as a matter of law
45 days after submission. 
§911.6(c).  This dated was
September 7, 2022 for MTA and September 10, 2022 for the City.  Virgen was required to file her petitions by
March 7 and 10, 2023.
            Court records show that Virgen filed
both Petitions on February 28, 2023.  The
Petitions are timely.
            
            5. The Failure to Timely Present
the Claim Was the Result of Mistake, Inadvertence, Surprise, or Excusable Neglect

            The court may grant relief if it
finds that the failure to timely present the claim was through mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, unless the public entity
establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the claim if the
court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of section 945.4.  §946.6(c)(1).
            Timely compliance with claim
presentation is a mandatory prerequisite to maintaining a cause of action
against a public entity and failure to file a claim is fatal to the claimant’s
cause of action.  Pacific Telegraph
& Telephone Co. v. County of Riverside, (1980) 106 Cal.App.3d 83, 188; San
Leandro Police Officers Assoc. v. City of San Leandro, (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d
553.  Ignorance of the claim filing
deadline is no excuse.  Harrison v.
Count of Del Norte, (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 1, 7; Drummond v. County of Fresno,
(1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1406, 1412. 
Excusable neglect is neglect which might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same or similar circumstances.  Ebersol v. Cowan, (1983) 35 Cal.3d
427, 435.  Mere failure to discover a
fact does not constitute excusable neglect for failing to present a timely
claim; the party seeking relief must establish the failure to discover the fact
in the exercise of reasonable diligence. 
Munoz, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at 1783.  “Excusable neglect” is defined as an act or
omission that might be expected of a prudent person under similar
circumstances.  Department of Water
& Power v. Superior Court, (“DWP”) (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 1288,
1294.
“Once the potential plaintiff has retained counsel, it is the
responsibility of counsel to diligently investigate the facts, identify
possible defendants, and timely file the tort claim. [Citation.]”  DWP,
supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at 1294, n. 3.  To demonstrate entitlement to relief, counsel
“must show more than that he did not discover a fact until too late; he must
establish that in the use of reasonable diligence he failed to discover it.” Greene v. State, (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 117, 121.  “In deciding whether
counsel’s error is excusable, this court looks to: (1) the nature of the
mistake or neglect; and (2) whether counsel was otherwise diligent in
investigating and pursuing the claim.  In
examining the mistake or neglect, the court inquires whether ‘a reasonably
prudent person under the same or similar circumstances’ might have made the
same error. In addition, ‘[unless] inexcusable neglect is clear, the policy
favoring trial on the merits prevails.”’  Bettencourt,
supra, 42 Cal.3d at 276.
Virgen’s theory of liability against both the City and MTA is
that the Intersection was a dangerous condition of public property that contributed
to the accident because Raymundo entered the Intersection on his motorcycle
against a red light because he feared being caught on the train tracks, similar
to other motorists using the Intersection. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 1.  
Virgen relies on mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect for her untimely presentation of this claim to the City and
MTA.  Pet. Op. Br. at 7.  She states that she was not certain about the
City’s and MTA’s contribution to the collision at the time of the
accident.  Pet. Op. Br. at 7.  She did not have information suggesting
causes of action against either the City or MTA until after the six-month claim
period had passed.  Flores Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.  On May 19, 2022, she received a surveillance
video from Chevron gas station at the Intersection.  Flores Decl., ¶8, Ex. 6.  She hired engineers on June 1, 2022, who
uncovered further evidence as to the City and MTA’s role in contributing to the
collision.  Flores Decl., ¶8.  Their July 10 inspection revealed the
Intersection was dangerous and had traffic controls with contradictory
instructions, directions, or indicators to users.  Flores Decl., ¶8.  She did not discover details regarding the
dangerous condition of the Intersection until taking discovery in her case
against the County, Virgen v. County. 
Flores Decl., ¶¶ 16-18, Exs. 13-15. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 7.
            Virgen has not shown excusable
neglect because her attorney was not diligent in investigating potential claims
against the City and MTA.  Virgen hired
counsel swiftly within days after the July 29, 2021 accident.  Carrillo Decl., ¶2.  At that point, her counsel was required to
diligently investigate the facts, identify possible defendants, and timely file
the tort claim.  See DWP, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at 1294, n. 3.  Virgen’s evidence of her attorney’s effort consists
mostly of conclusions and a conclusory statement that Virgen’s counsel acted
diligently does not prove that he did so. 
The only real facts presented in Virgen’s moving papers are that her
attorney received a surveillance video from Chevron gas station at the Intersection
on May 19, 2022 and that he hired engineers on June 1, 2022 who uncovered
further evidence.
            This is inadequate.  For one thing, Virgen fails to state what
facts in the surveillance video or in the engineers report were unknown to her
counsel and what about them gave reason to believe the Intersection was in a
dangerous condition.  She also fails to
provide evidence what efforts her attorney made to obtain the video in Virgen
v. County and why it took until May 19, 2022 to receive it.
Additionally, the City correctly asks why Virgen could not
have discovered the Intersection’s dangerous conditions or hired an engineer
between July 29, 2021 and the six-month deadline of January 29, 2022.  City Opp. at 10.  In reply, Virgen’s attorney, Carrillo, states
that he visited the accident site on August 4, 2021.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  All he knew was that a deputy and Raymundo has
collided at that Intersection.  Carrillo
Decl., ¶3.  He did not know the direction
Raymundo came from, the speed of each vehicle, or the conditions of the Intersection
at the time of the crash.  Carrillo
Decl., ¶3.  Without information on the
vehicles’ path of travel, he had no reason to believe the Intersection contributed
to the collision.  Carrillo Decl., ¶4. He
does not have the specialized training in accident reconstruction or traffic
engineering necessary to determine and identify potentially dangerous conditions.  Carrillo Decl., ¶4.  
Carillo noticed surveillance cameras at the Intersection.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  This led him to send a preservation letter to
the Chevron gas station on August 18, 2021. 
Carrillo Decl., ¶3.  Carrillo
needed the video footage to determine how the collision occurred.  Carrillo Decl., ¶3. Chevron refused to
produce the video.  Carrillo Decl.,
¶3.  Carrillo only obtained a copy of the
video after Virgen v. County began. 
Carrillo Decl., ¶3.
This is well and good, but Carillo fails to explain why the
video is more significant than the Traffic Collision Report, Supplemental
Report, and other police reports which were finalized and available on December
21, 2021, more than a month before the January 29, 2022 claim deadline.  Virgen has admitted in discovery that her
counsel received the Traffic Report prior to February 1, 2022.  Roberts Decl., ¶4, Ex. C (Response No.
11).  These reports state in detail how
the accident occurred.  In the
Supplemental Report, LASD summarized the Chevron video.  Roberts Decl., ¶2, Ex. A; Supplemental Report,
pp. 13-14.[2]  The time-stamped Video Analysis states that Raymundo
entered the Intersection on a solid red light.  Supplemental Report, p. 13.  It states that the traffic lights are hard to
see from the surveillance video. 
Supplemental Report, p. 14.  The
Supplemental Report also included a diagram of the intersection with the MTA
railroad tracks.  Supplemental Report at
pp. 7-8.  The map of the Intersection and
the Video Analysis show the placement of relevant traffic signals and the
railroad tracks.  Coupled with his visit
to the site, Carillo should have been able to use the reports to investigate
whether the Intersections lights and railroad tracks were in a dangerous
condition.  He did not need to be an
engineer to begin this investigation.  
Virgen argues that the video is the best evidence because
narrative descriptions are subject to incompleteness or bias.  Reply at 4. 
Maybe so, but he shows nothing in the reports that is inconsistent with
the video, and even a biased summary could have prompted him to investigate the
condition of the Intersection. 
Virgen has not shown her counsel’s diligence.  As MTA notes, because a police officer killed
a motorist, it should have been obvious there would be a police report.  MTA Opp. at 6.  Her counsel should have checked with LASD
regularly to see when the reports would be ready.  Id. 
This would have allowed Virgen and Carrillo to obtain the report closer
to its December 20, 2021 issuance date and to timely make a claim against the
City and MTA.[3] Carrillo did
not act diligently before the six month deadline of January 29, 2022.
Additionally, Deputy Wilson’s supplemental narrative dated
March 22, 2022, states that she talked to Montalvo, the City’s lead employee
about the traffic control devices. 
Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.  He said
the signals at the Intersection were in working order and the lights phase
together except when the MTA train passes or when vehicles are in left turn
bays.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.  Montalvo gave additional details as to the
timing of the lights.  Flores Decl., ¶5,
Ex. 3.  Wilson admitted that in her City
travels she sometimes notices the traffic signals are not easily noticeable at
select angles.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Exs. 3,
14.  This could have been the case for
Raymundo as well.  Flores Decl., ¶5, Ex.
3, 14.  
This supplemental narrative is more evidence that should have
triggered a dangerous condition investigation. 
Virgen does not mention when her counsel obtained Deputy Wilson’s
supplemental narrative.  While he necessarily
would have acquired it after the January 29, 2022 six-month deadline, its March
22, 2022 date is more than two months before Carillo obtained the video in May.  It shows that the delay in Virgen’s
respective July 22 and 25, 2022 claims was unreasonable under section 911.4(b).[4]

            
            E. Conclusion
            Carillo knew how to make a
government claim because he promptly made one against the County.  Yet, his only effort to investigate whether
the accident location is a dangerous condition of public property was to visit
the scene on August 4, 2021.  It appears
that Carrillo spent his time thereafter prosecuting Virgen v. County and
pursuing the video from Chevron in discovery. 
It was not until Carillo deposed Apodaca, Wilson, and Ramirez in
March-May 2023, and received the video in May, that he realized there may be a
potential to add the City and MTA as defendants.  By this time, the six month deadline had long
passed.  Virgen’s counsel failure to
explore other sources of information between July 29, 2021 and January 29, 2022
demonstrates a lack of due diligence. 
That failure, coupled with the continued failure to investigate from
January 29, 2022 until May/June 2022 also was not reasonable under section
911.4(b).  Virgen’s failure to present
timely claims against the City and MTA is not excused by mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.  Additionally,
her applications to the City and MTA, although presented within one year of the
July 29, 2021 accrual, were not reasonable. 
§911.4(b).  Both Petitions for
relief from claim filing requirements are denied. 


