 Case Number:  24STCV01604    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOHN
  DOE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, a
  public school district; GABRIELA CORTEZ, an individual, and DOES 1 through
  50, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV01604
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER
 
Date: May 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
John Doe
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition., and reply papers. LAUSD’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint (the “Demurrer”)
is OVERRULED.
 
BACKGROUND
             On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff John Doe filed
a Complaint against LAUSD and Gabriela Cortez (“Cortez”) alleging eight causes
of action arising from allegations of sexual abuse by Cortez while Plaintiff
was a high-school student and Cortez was a Spanish teacher at his school.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that during his junior and senior year at
Theodore Roosevelt High School (“Roosevelt High”) Cortez began grooming and
conditioning Plaintiff with the intent of manipulating his emotions to take
advantage of his young age in order to sexually abuse him. (Id.)
Ultimately, Cortez was arrested in 2012 for sexual abuse against two other minors
in a separate case, and pled guilty to six felony counts of unlawful sexual
intercourse with minors. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) 
            The causes of action alleged are as
follows:
1.     Sexual Abuse of a
Minor (as against Cortez)
2.     Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (as against Cortez)
3.     Sexual Assault and
Battery (as against Cortez)
4.     Sexual Harassment
(as against Cortez
5.     Negligent Hiring,
Supervision and Retention of an Unfit Employee (as against LAUSD)
6.     Breach of
Mandatory Duty: Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse (Gov. Code §815.6) (as
against LAUSD)
7.     Negligent
Supervision of a Minor (as against LAUSD)
8.     Negligence (as
against DOES 41 through 50)
 
            LAUSD demurs to the fifth, sixth and
seventh causes of action. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and LAUSD has filed a
reply.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Concurrently filed with
their moving papers, LAUSD files a request for judicial notice for the
following:
1.    
Order on motion for judgment on the pleadings in Contra
Costa County Superior Court case no. C22-02613, filed June 13, 2023;
2.    
Order on motion for judgment on the pleadings in
Superior Court for the County of Monterey case no. 22CV003767, filed February
2, 2024; 
3.    
Written
order re: Demurrer in Los Angeles Superior Court, North Central District, case
no. 22STCV23228; 
            Pursuant to Evid. Code
§452(d), the request for judicial notice is granted as to items one, two, and
three. Likewise, Plaintiff upon opposition files a request for judicial notice.
Plaintiff requests that this Court judicially notice 59 exhibits, all of which
are either (a) legislative documents, (b) orders issued by a court within this
state, or (c) minute orders or rulings filed by a court within this state.
Pursuant to Evid. Code §452(d), the request for judicial notice is granted as
to all 59 exhibits, but not to the truth of the matters stated therein.    
 
MEET AND CONFER
             “Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party
shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a).) Defendant submits the Declaration of
Ryan D. Miller (hereinafter, Miller Decl.) which states that the parties met
and conferred but were unable to reach an agreement. (Miller Decl., ¶ 3.) The
requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) have been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
            “[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true,
but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis
            In its moving papers, LAUSD presents
2 arguments: (1) as applied to public entities, the retroactive application of
Assembly Bill 218 violates the California Constitution; and (2) the fifth,
sixth and seventh causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. 
 
LAUSD’s Constitutional Challenge to AB 218 - 
            LAUSD’s first argument is that
Plaintiff failed to comply with the claim presentation requirements outlined by
the Government Claims Act (the “Act”).
LAUSD acknowledges that Assembly Bill 218 (“AB 218”), which amends the law pertaining
to civil suits for recovery of damages from alleged childhood sexual abuse,
exempts sexual abuse allegations against public entities from this requirement.

 
            LAUSD’s primary
contention is that the California Legislature lacked the authority to allow for
liability against a public entity for past acts of negligence. In making this
contention, LAUSD argues that AB 218 violates a prohibition on gifting public
funds contained in section six, article sixteen, of the California
Constitution.  This position ignores the
longstanding presumption in favor of constitutionality of laws passed by the
state’s legislature, which provides that invalidity of legislation must be
clear before it can be declared unconstitutional. (Dittus
v. Cranston (1959) 53 Cal.2d 284, 286.) With no authority
to the contrary, LAUSD – and this Court – must heed the guidance of the Supreme
Court of California in that “‘All presumptions and intendments favor the
validity of a statute and mere doubt does not afford sufficient reason for a
judicial declaration of invalidity. Statutes must be upheld unless their
unconstitutionality clearly, positively, and unmistakably appears.’” With no
clear and apparent unconstitutionality shown as to AB 218, this Court presumes
the law to be valid, and OVERRULES LAUSD’s demurrer on that ground.    
 
The Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Causes of Action - 
            LAUSD next argues that the Complaint
fails to put forth facts to support the fifth, sixth and seventh causes of
action. LAUSD specifically contends in its Demurrer that “Nowhere in the
Complaint does Plaintiff state any facts showing the nature and extent of any
sexual abuse or harassment by perpetrator Cortez.” (Moving Papers, 13:19-21.) 
 
            First, LAUSD presents no authority
requiring Plaintiff to detail each of every instance of sexual abuse by the
perpetrator. “It has been consistently held that ‘a plaintiff is required only
to set forth the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action’” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550. Internal quotations omitted.) By contrast,
Plaintiff provides authority that the California Supreme Court has approved of
lowering the factual specificity at the pleadings stage in circumstances similar
to the one before the Court now. (Ibid.) 
 
            Second, as explained below,
Plaintiff provides sufficient facts to enable LAUSD to prepare a defense. 
 
1.     Fifth Cause of
Action: Negligent Hiring, Supervision, & Retention
            The
elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention or supervision
are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the
employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue
risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.) 
 
            There is no dispute between the
parties with regard to the first element: Cortez was a teacher at Roosevelt
High, hired by LAUSD. As to the second element, the allegations make clear that
Cortez was incompetent, unfit and a danger to the students at Roosevelt High.
Plaintiff alleged that Cortez groomed and conditioned Plaintiff with the
specific intent of taking advantage of Plaintiff’s young age, ultimately to
sexually abuse Plaintiff. (Complaint, ¶ 10.) The Complaint later alleges that
Cortez was arrested in 2012 for unlawful sexual intercourse with minors.
(Complaint, ¶ 13.)
 
            The
third element is satisfied because the Complaint alleges that Cortez “began
engaging in openly flirtatious behavior towards Plaintiff, including physically
touching him during school hours.” (Complaint, ¶ 11.) The Complaint makes clear
that this was repeated behavior throughout the duration of the 2005-2006 school
year that included Cortez sharing information about her personal life in her
classroom during school hours and coercing Plaintiff to do the same. (Id.)
Although no allegation recites actual notice to LAUSD, there are definitive
allegations based on the facts that LAUSD should have known of the sexual
abuse. (Also see Complaint, ¶ 35 & 61.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges the harm
of the sexual abuse. With sufficient facts to maintain a cause of action for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision and Retention, the Demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
overruled. 
2.     Sixth Cause of
Action: Breach of Mandatory Duty – Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse
under Gov. Code §815.6
            Gov. Code §815.6 reads: “Where a
public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by an enactment that is
designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of injury, the public
entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately caused by its failure
to discharge the duty unless the public entity establishes that it exercised
reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.”
 
            Here, the Complaint clearly alleges
that even though LAUSD should have known or should have reasonably suspected
the sexual abuse carried out by Cortez, it failed to comply with its duty as a
mandated reporter. Plaintiff alleges that the abuse occurred throughout the
2005-2006 school year and that no employee of LAUSD complied with Gov. Code
§815.6. The Demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled.   
 
3.     Seventh Cause of
Action: Negligent Supervision of a Minor
            In
order to state a claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of
(1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) The Complaint
alleges that LAUSD was responsible for the care, custody, control, supervision
and protection of minor students entrusted to them, and that LAUSD failed in
its responsibility with regard to Plaintiff. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges, and LAUSD does not deny, that a legal duty to Plaintiff
existed. The Complaint then alleges a breach of that legal duty of care when
Cortez sexually abused Plaintiff as described above. Finally, the Complaint
alleges harm, and that LAUSD’s breach was a proximate cause of that harm,
specifically by failing to act on constructive notice of Cortez’s misconduct. Therefore,
the Demurrer as to the seventh cause of action is overruled.  
 
CONCLUSION 
            LAUSD’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 13th day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



