  Case Number:  23STCV10006    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THE KERNAN LAW FIRM,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COREY LARGE, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV10006
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ORDER ASSIGNING
  COPYRIGHTS
 
Date: 
  May 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff
The Kernan Law Firm 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Corey Large
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff
commenced this action against Defendant on May 3, 2023 for breach of written
contract, and common count – services rendered.  On October 4, 2023, the parties filed a notice
of settlement and on November 28, 2023, the Court entered judgment under CCP §
664.6 against Defendant in the amount of $56,370.50. 
 
On March 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for order assigning copyrights (the “Motion”). On April 30,
2024, Defendant filed an opposition to the Motion. Plaintiff filed a reply to
the opposition on May 6 and 7, 2024.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibits A-K consisting of Copyright
registrations from the Copyright Office is GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (h).)  
 
MOTION TO ASSIGN COPYRIGHTS
Legal Standard
CCP §
708.510(a) states, in relevant part: “(a) Except as otherwise provided by law,
upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may
order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a receiver
appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all or part
of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is
conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the following
types of payments: (1) Wages dues from the federal government that are not
subject to withholding under an earnings withholding order. (2) Rents. (3)
Commissions. (4) Royalties. (5) Payments due from a patent or copyright. (6)
Insurance policy loan value.”
 
CCP §
708.510(c), further provides: “[I]n determining whether to order an assignment
or the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take
into consideration all relevant factors, including the following: (1) The
reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of
persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor. (2) Payments the
judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of
other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support. (3) The amount remaining due on the money judgment. (4) The amount
being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be
assigned.”
 
CCP §
708.520(a) states, in relevant part: “When an application is made pursuant to
Section 708.510 or thereafter, the judgment creditor may apply to the court for
an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning
or otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.”
“The court may issue an order pursuant to this section upon a showing of need
for the order.” (CCP § 708.520(b).)
 
Assigning Copyrights
Plaintiff moves for an order assigning
copyrights, assigning payments due or becoming due from any third party thereon
until the judgment against Defendant is satisfied. The copyrights include
commission and royalties from the films “4th Knight,” “The 9th Passenger,”
“American Siege,” “Cosmic Sin,” “In Like Flynn,” “Paradise City,” “Toxic,”
“Apex,” “Breach” (a.k.a “Anti-Life”), “Detective Knight: Independence” (a.k.a
“Devil’s Knight”), “Detective Knight: Redemption” (a.k.a “Christmas Knight”).
Plaintiff further moves to restrain Defendant from assigning or otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought
to be assigned. 
 
Plaintiff represents that the outstanding
amount of the Judgment, in excess of $56,370.50, remains due, with interest at
the rate of 10% annum accruing. Defendant has failed to respond to any
post-judgment discovery and has been evasively avoiding all collection efforts.
(Kernan Decl., ¶2.) Through its attempts to enforce the Judgment, Plaintiff has
learned that Defendant has Copyright Registrations and receivables from the
following entities which could serve to satisfy the Judgment: 1. Corey Large’s
Interest in “The 4th Knight” receivables; 2. Corey Large’s Interest in “The 9th
Passenger” receivables; 3. Corey Large’s Interest in “American Siege”
receivables; 4. Corey Large’s Interest in “Cosmic Sin” receivables; 5. Corey
Large’s Interest in “In Like Flynn” receivables; 6. Corey Large’s Interest in
“Paradise City” receivables; 7. Corey Large’s Interest in “Toxic” receivables;
8. Corey Large’s Interest in “Apex” receivables; 9. Corey Large’s Interest in
“Breach” (a.k.a “Anti-Life”) receivables; 10. Corey Large’s Interest in
“Detective Knight: Independence” (a.k.a “Devil’s Knight”) receivables; 11.
Corey Large’s Interest in “Detective Knight: Redemption” (a.k.a “Christmas
Knight”) receivables. 
 
Plaintiff further asserts it has
demonstrated a need under CCP § 708.520(b), in that Defendant has failed to pay
the outstanding monies voluntarily, the indebtedness is outstanding, and Defendant
otherwise has been uncooperative. The assignment order is the most likely
source of funds from which the Judgment will be satisfied, and Defenant’s prior
conduct demonstrates an intent to evade financial obligations to Plaintiff. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
has not addressed any of the factors the Court is to take into consideration in
making the ruling under CCP § 708.510(c). Defendant contends that each of these
copyrights are films owned by multiple entities or individuals. Further,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not address how the assignment order will affect
community property rights. Based on the foregoing, Defendant requests that the
Court deny the Motion or continue it to determine the effect of any assignment
order. 
As Plaintiff points out in reply,
Defendant has not provided a declaration of his own showing that any of the
factors delineated in CCP § 708.510(c) weigh in favor of denying the Motion.
Defendant further does not argue that he has in fact paid the judgment or that
he has not been evading the collection of the judgment. Defendant also does not
argue that the money from the copyrights support him or that he needs the money
to make any required payments or other judgments to be satisfied from the
money. Defendant also does not show how assigning his portion of the payments
from the copyrights has any effect on third parties that also share the
copyrights. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that assignment of the payments due on the
copyrights up until satisfaction of the judgment is warranted and Plaintiff has
demonstrated a need to restrain Defendant from assigning or otherwise disposing
of the right to payment from the copyrights under Section 708.520(b). Therefore, the Motion is GRANTED. 
 
            The Court declines Plaintiff’s request to set an OSC re
sanctions for citation of unpublished cases.
 
Moving party are
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
 
Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
  Dated this 13th day of May 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 
 