 Case Number:  23CHCV03519    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
5-16-24
Case
#23CHCV03519, Daysi Dominguez De Lucano vs. Volkswagen Group of America,
Inc., et al.
Trial
Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Daysi Dominguez De Lucano
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendant’s Answers to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
 
RULING:
Parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff Daysi Dominguez De
Lucano (Plaintiff) filed this lemon law case against Defendant Volkswagen Group
of America, Inc. (Defendant). 
 
Plaintiff
propounded discovery on Defendant on December 26, 2023. On February 16, 2024, Defendant
served responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production. On April 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses to the requests for
production. Plaintiff argues that all of Defendant’s responses to Request Nos. 1
through 31 were inadequate and not code-compliant, and that Defendant failed to
produce many of the documents requested. Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s motion
on the basis that Plaintiff failed to establish good cause for the motion and because
Defendant has not waived its objections regarding electronically stored
information.
 
There
is also a dispute between the parties over the sufficiency of the meet and
confer. Defendant argues in its opposition that Plaintiffs failed to conduct a
good faith meet and confer because all Plaintiffs did was send Defendant a generic
meet and confer letter that ignored Defendant’s substantive responses. Defendant’s
counsel responded to Plaintiff’s letter and offered to meet telephonically, but
all Plaintiff did was send another letter. Defendant once again offered to meet
telephonically, but Plaintiff filed this motion instead.
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time. The Court orders the parties to meet and
confer directly, not by email or letter. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court.
The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments. 
 
Prior
to meeting and conferring, the parties should refer to the Court’s new
discovery order for lemon law cases for this motion and any future discovery
motions that may be filed in this case. There is a section in that order for
the production of documents. The Court’s discovery order is posted online,
along with this Department’s courtroom information and Final Status Conference
Order, all of which the parties are ordered to review.
 
ORDER

1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer.
 
2.
The parties shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described
above. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made.
 
3.
The dates for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the hearing
on this motion.
 
4. Moving party to
provide notice