 Case Number:  22STCV04068    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:    June
6, 2024                                         TRIAL DATE: October 22, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         Jennifer Penez, et
al. v. Heewoon Chung, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04068
 
 
 
MOTIONS
TO CHALLENGE GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT

 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant Leslie’s
Poolmart, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Jennifer Perez and Jose Holguin
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 15, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 23, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 30, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED:  Defendant Leslie’s Poolmart requests the court deny Plaintiffs’
application for good faith settlement with Defendants Del Rey Pool Plastering,
Inc. Alfredo Preciado, and Jose Maria Preciado for $1,000,000.
 
             
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant Leslie’s
Poolmart, Inc.
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:      Defendants Heewon Chung
and Mi Seon Chung
 
SERVICE:                              Filed March 14,
2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 23, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 30, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Defendant Leslie’s
Poolmart requests the court deny Defendants Heewon Chung and Mi Seon Chung’s application
for good faith settlement with Plaintiffs for $300,000.
 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises out of Plaintiffs Jennifer Penez
(“Penez”) and Jose Holguin’s (“Holguin”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) wrongful
death claim as successors-in-interest to Jazlyn Katana Holguin (“Decedent”).
Plaintiffs allege that leased property located at 2358 Caldero Lane, Montrose,
CA 91020 from Defendants Heewon Chung and Mi Seon Chung (“the Chungs”). 
Plaintiffs allege that the pool
located in the backyard of the Subject Property was improperly maintained and
lacked adequate safety measures. The swimming pool was not equipped with any
enclosure that isolated it from the residence; there was no pool cover; the doors
of the residence that provided direct access to the swimming pool were not
equipped with any alarms; the doors of the residence that provided direct
access to the swimming pool were not self-closing or self-latching; and the
swimming pool was not equipped with any other safety protections that would
prevent unauthorized entry into the swimming pool or alert Plaintiffs of any
unauthorized entry.  
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant Del Rey Pool
Plastering, Inc. (“Del Rey”) was hired to replaster the pool and Defendant
Leslie’s Poolmart, Inc. (“Leslie’s”) was hired to install a pool pump. Plaintiffs
allege that each performed work without obtaining a permit in violation of
County of Los Angeles Code of Ordinances Title 26. Plaintiffs allege that Del
Rey and Leslie’s failed to acknowledge the gross lack of safety protections for
the swimming pool, failed to warn Plaintiff of the lack of adequate safety
precautions, and/or failed to provide notice to Plaintiffs, or the Chungs of
the drowning prevention requirements of California’s Swimming Pool Safety Act.
Plaintiffs allege that pursuant to California’s Swimming Pool Safety Act, when
a building permit is required for the construction or remodeling of a swimming
pool, any person engaging in the permitted work on the swimming pool must give
the consumer notice of the drowning prevention safety requirements enumerated
therein. 
Plaintiffs allege that Decedent
fell into the pool on February 9, 2021, and drowned because of the lack of
safety features at the Subject Property. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was
declared dead on February 16, 2021.
            Plaintiffs filed a first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on March 28, 2022, alleging three causes of action for (1)
negligence/premises liability (wrongful death), (2) negligence (wrongful death),
and (3) survival action.  
             
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant Leslie’s
Poolmart, Inc.’s motions to challenge the food faith settlement determination
are DENIED. In turn, Defendants Heewon Chung and Mi Seon Chung’s application for a good faith settlement determination is
GRANTED. In addition, Plaintiffs’
application for good faith settlement determination as to the settlement with
Defendants Del Rey Pool Plastering, Inc. Alfredo Preciado, and Jose Maria
Preciado is GRANTED.
 
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs’ request judicial notice
of other filings in different court matters is denied as it is not relevant to
this matter.
 
The Chungs’ request for judicial
notice of the filing of their motion for summary judgment is granted.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
CCP §
877.6, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion,
“[a]ny party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a
hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the
plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . .
.”  “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).  Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith does
not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims
against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 877, subd. (a).
 
“The party
asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).
 
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499, the
California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors courts
are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under § 877.6:
“a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor's
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial.  Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.” 
 
The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.”  Tech-Bilt,
Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499. “‘[A] defendant’s
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s
liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  Ibid.
 
“The party
asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§
877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the
settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to
be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.  Such a
demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”  Id.
at pp. 499-500.
 
In City
of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261,
the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith
settlement determination: 
 
This court
notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented
for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and
granted summarily by the trial court.  At the time of filing in many
cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop.  If each
motion required a full recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a
complete factual response to all of the Tech-Bilt factors, literally
thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions would have
to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would waste
valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to say,
when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good
faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the
case is sufficient. 
 
If the good
faith settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a
workable ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack
of good faith on the contesting party.  Once there is a showing made by
the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good
faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in
good faith.  If contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be
filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file responsive
counterdeclarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by the
nonsettling contesting party. 
 
Id., at
1260-1261 [citation omitted].
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.               
Motion to Challenge Good Faith of
Del Rey and Plaintiffs’ Settlement
 
Plaintiffs filed an application
for a determination that their settlement with Defendant Del Rey for $1,000,000
is in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
 
Defendant Leslie’s has filed a
motion to challenge the good faith determination. Leslie’s first argues that
the application was not timely filed or served because the application served
with incomplete, as it did not contain any of the evidentiary documents
referenced by and incorporated into the application including the written
settlement agreement between Plaintiffs and Del Rey and the declarations of the
Preciados. These documents were not served upon counsel of Defendant until
March 8, 2024, when they were emailed under the caption of “Notice of Errata.”
Defendant contends that the extremely late service of the documents upon which
the application relies occurred only four days prior to the statutory deadline
to file the present motion and is prejudicial.
Any party to an action in which it is alleged that
two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co- obligors shall be entitled to
a hearing on the issue of the good faith settlement entered into by the
plaintiff and one or more alleged tortfeasors. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(a)(1).) “In the alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to
all parties and to the court, together with an application for determination of
good faith settlement and a proposed order. 
The application shall indicate the settling
parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with
the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of
the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice,
application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the
court may approve the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).) 
However, the application filed and served contained the
requirements under Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2), such as the settling
parties, the basis, terms and amount of settlement. Although the attachments
were missing, a written settlement agreement need not be executed and presented
as long as the court and all the parties are timely advised of the important
terms of the settlement. (Alcal Roofing & Insulation v. Superior Court
(1992) 8 Cal. App. 4th 1121, 1127.) Here, Defendant does not argue that it was
unaware of the important terms of the settlement on the application alone
without the attachments. In addition, the statute does not require that a
declaration of insurance be provided such that the failure to include the
declaration would require a denial of the application. Moreover, while
Defendant argues the late filing of the attachments was prejudicial in that it
did not prepare a comprehensive motion to contest the application, Defendant
has nevertheless briefed its motion on the merits, and the Court is unable to
determine how Defendant has been prejudiced. 
 
Next, the court notes that Leslie’s
contests the motion for a good faith settlement determination, and as a result,
“ha[s] the burden of proof on that issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (d).)
 
Leslie’s
provides evidence that Plaintiffs are seeking economic and non-economic
damages, including $265,187.08 in medical bills and $1.75 million in lost
wages, and an unspecific claim for a lifetime of lost earnings on behalf of
Decedent. (Blarcom Decl., ¶¶ 4-10; Exhs. 3-6.)
Leslie’s also states that Plaintiffs made a $12,000,000 settlement demand to
Leslie’s, evidencing their intent to seek tens of millions of dollars. (Id., ¶¶ 9-10.)
 
Leslie’s argues that Plaintiffs entire theory
of liability hinges upon whether Del Rey and Leslie’s were required to obtain
building permits for the services performed on the pool. Leslie’s contends that
Del Rey performed the greatest amount of work at the pool, and its work could
have required a permit. Leslie’s thus argues that its proposed settlement is
simply insufficient as a matter of law given the damages sought by Plaintiffs
and its potential liability. 
The court finds that Leslie’s has not shown that Del
Rey’s settlement agreement with plaintiffs for $1 million is so far ‘out of the
ballpark’ in relation to its proportionate share of plaintiffs’ known
damages at the time of settlement. 
Although Leslie’s points to
Plaintiffs settlement demand of $12 million, Leslie’s does not cite to any
authority for the proposition that a settlement demand reflects a plaintiff’s
total recovery. There may be strategic reasons for making a settlement demand.
Thus, Leslie’s own evidence shows that Plaintiffs’ approximate total recovery this
far is a little more than $2 million, and pursuant to Leslie’s own argument,
Plaintiffs claims against Del Rey and Leslie’s rest on speculation. Further,
Leslie’s argues that its work did not require a building permit. It further
argues that Del Rey provided more work and Del Rey’s work could have
triggered a need for a building permit. Importantly, Leslie’s does not argue
that Del Rey did need a building permit. As such, based on the arguments
presented, Del Rey’s settlement for $1 million is half of Plaintiff’s known
damages and therefore is not out of the ballpark in relation to its
proportionate share of liability, which appears to be attenuated.
 
Leslie’s further argues that Del
Rey failed to provide evidence of its financial condition. The court notes that
the Del Rey defendants provided evidence that $1 million is their policy
limits. (Notice of Errata, Preciado Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Moreover, recent authority provides no such
evidence is required.  (Cahill, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 968 (“As
SDGE notes, in support of their section 877.6 motion, Owners did not present
any evidence of their financial condition or liability insurance policy limits.
However, that omission did not preclude the trial court from finding the April
2009 settlement was made in good faith. Tech–Bilt does not require
settling defendants to present such evidence.”  (citation
omitted)).)  Additionally, the settlement amount is reasonable “without
‘discounting’ that amount based on any purported financial insolvency or
insurance limitations.”  (Ibid.)
 
Leslie’s argues that the
application fails to provide the court with how the proposed settlement is to
be allocated among the plaintiffs, and does not provide sufficient information
as to whether there was any collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct between
Plaintiffs and Del Rey.
In opposition, Plaintiffs provide that all settling
parties were represented by counsel, and the negotiations were conducted at
arm’s length. (Brotman Decl., ¶ 6.) 
As to allocation, the court notes that the purpose of a motion for good faith
settlement is to determine “whether the amount of the settlement is within the
reasonable range of the settling tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative
liability for the plaintiff's injuries.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra,
38 Cal.3d at p.499.)  Another purpose “underlying section 877.6 is to ease
court congestion by providing an incentive to settle the entire underlying
litigation.”  (Britz, Inc. v. Dow Chemical Co. (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th
177, 184.)  The purpose of a hearing for good faith settlement is not to
specifically allocate how the settlement funds are distributed.  (Dole
Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 894, 919 [Finding
that section 877.6 does not require damages to be allocated for approval of a
good faith settlement].) As explained by the
Supreme Court, “the fact a nonsettling defendant may challenge the agreement's
assigned value should not be interpreted as giving such defendant a right to a
mini-trial on the valuation issue. The nature, extent and the procedure regarding
any such challenge is left to the discretion of the trial court.”  (Abbott
Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 879, Fn.
23.)   
 
Moreover,
the only relevance of the allocation of damages is that as to future offset due
to settlement credits.  “[S]ettlement credits
are predicated on the principle that while a plaintiff is entitled to full
compensation for his or her proven injuries, he or she is not entitled to a
‘double recovery’ of these damages.”  (Schreiber v. Lee¿(2020) 47
Cal.App.5th 745, 760; see also Tavaglione v. Billings¿(1993) 4 Cal.4th
1150, 1158–1159 [“Regardless of the nature or number of legal theories advanced
by the plaintiff, he is not entitled to more than a single recovery for each
distinct item of compensable damage supported by the evidence. [Citation.]
Double or duplicative recovery for the same items of damage amounts to
overcompensation and is therefore prohibited.”].) 
 
However,
at this point, such a determination of offset is premature.  “The reduction of an award pursuant to this section is
normally applied one of two ways: (1) by the jury after evidence is submitted
to it of the settlement with instructions to reduce the award by the amount
paid in settlement [Citation]; or (2) by the court when the settlement is not
presented to the jury [Citation].”  (May v. Miller¿(1991) 228
Cal.App.3d 404, 409.)  No jury trial has occurred and thus offset may not
even be applicable as – for example – Leslie’s may prevail. 
 
As a result, Leslie’s motion to challenge the good faith
settlement determination of the settlement between Plaintiffs and Del Rey is
denied. In turn, Plaintiffs’ application for a good faith settlement
determination is granted.
 
II.             
Motion to Challenge Good Faith of the
Chungs and Plaintiffs’ Settlement
 
The Chungs filed an application
for a determination that their settlement with Plaintiffs for $300,000 is in
good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
 
Leslie’s
challenges the good faith of the settlement. As Leslie’s contests the motion for a good faith
settlement determination, it “ha[s] the burden of proof on that issue.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
Leslie’s contends that the settlement is
so far out of the ballpark in relation to the Chungs’ liability. Leslie’s
argues that they are the only defendants in
this case that owed a duty of care to affirmatively provide anti-drowning
features at the Property as they are the Owners of the property and owed a duty
of care to keep it safe. 
Leslie’s
provides evidence that Plaintiffs are seeking economic and non-economic
damages, including $265,187.08 in medical bills and $1.75 million in lost
wages, and an unspecific claim for a lifetime of lost earnings on behalf of
Decedent. (Blarcom Decl., ¶¶ 4-10; Exhs.
3-6.) Leslie’s also states that Plaintiffs made a $12,000,000 settlement demand
to Leslie’s, evidencing their intent to seek tens of millions of dollars. (Id.,
¶¶ 9-10.)
 
In opposition, the Chung Defendants provide
evidence that Plaintiffs were responsible for all pool maintenance under the
lease agreement. (Chung Decl., Exh. 2.) They also argue that the argument that
any additional safety measures would have prevented the accident is purely
speculative. The Chung Defendants also argue the property was built in 1956 and
the pool is not subject to the Swimming Pool Safety Act. The Chung Defendants
also contend that Plaintiff Penez was on a conference call for work with headphones
on when Decedent somehow got into the pool. Plaintiff had given Decedent a
phone to occupy her and the battery had died. (Schroder Decl., ¶ 7.) Moreover,
the Chungs argue that Plaintiffs never requested any safety prevention measures
be installed, and thus, they were not on notice of any dangerous condition. “A plaintiff alleging injuries based on
a dangerous condition must prove the defendant¿either: (1) created the
dangerous condition, or (2)¿knew or should have known of the dangerous
condition.”¿ (See¿Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
1030, 1036; see also¿Ortega v. Kmart Corp.¿(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200,
1206.)¿¿
The court finds that the
settlement of $300,000 is not so out of the ballpark of Plaintiffs’ known
damages of approximately $2 million in relation to the Chung Defendants’
liability in light of the potential lack of notice issues and potential
comparative negligence of Plaintiffs. The court notes that
settlements have been upheld as being in good faith in cases with a $25,000
settlement in a $5 million case, a $30,000 settlement in a $1 million case, a
$65,000 settlement in a $7 million case, and a $50,000 settlement in a $1.425
million case. (See Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Elec. Co. (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 939, 968 [citing Bay Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50
Cal.3d 1012; Wysong & Miles Co. v. Western Industrial Movers (1983)
143 Cal.App.3d 278; Wilshire Ins. Co. v. Tuff Boy Holding, Inc. (2001)
86 Cal.App.4th 627].)
Leslie’s further argues that the Chungs failed to
provide evidence of their financial condition. The court notes that there is evidence that the
settlement amount is for the policy limits. (Dorr Decl., ¶ 6;
Chung Decl., ¶ 13.) Chung further declares
that he cannot contribute to the settlement above and beyond payment of his
insurance policy limits. In an effort to contribute as much as possible,
Chung’s insurance company agreed to pay the policy limits and reimbursement of
$7,950 for Plaintiffs’ portion of the mediation fee with the Hon. Richard Stone
and to pay $1,000 in med pay. (Id., ¶ 15.)
The Chungs do not have additional excess or umbrella insurance that would
provide coverage. (Id., ¶
13.) Moreover, recent authority provides no such evidence is
required.  (Cahill, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 968 (“As SDGE notes,
in support of their section 877.6 motion, Owners did not present any evidence
of their financial condition or liability insurance policy limits. However,
that omission did not preclude the trial court from finding the April 2009
settlement was made in good faith. Tech–Bilt does not require settling
defendants to present such evidence.”  (citation omitted)).) 
Additionally, the settlement amount is reasonable “without ‘discounting’ that
amount based on any purported financial insolvency or insurance
limitations.”  (Ibid.)
Next, as Leslie’s argued above with
respect to its motion to challenge the settlement between Plaintiffs and Del
Rey, there is no information as to how the settlement is to be allocated
between Plaintiffs. Nevertheless, as stated above, allocation is not required. (Dole Food Co., Inc. supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at 919.)
Further, any offsetting
issue is premature.
            Lastly, the Chungs’ counsel’s declaration states that the
parties mediated this case with the Hon. Richard Stone in July 2023. Defendants and Plaintiffs
continued negotiations after mediation and thereafter reached the settlement
that is before the court. (Schroder Decl., ¶
11.) There was no collusion in this settlement. (Id., ¶ 12.)
As a result, Leslie’s motion to challenge the good faith
settlement determination of the settlement between Plaintiffs and the Chungs is
denied. In turn, the Chungs’ application for a good faith settlement
determination is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Leslie’s
Poolmart, Inc.’s motions to challenge the food faith settlement determination
are DENIED. In turn, Defendants Heewon Chung and Mi Seon Chung’s application for a good faith settlement determination is
GRANTED. In addition, Plaintiffs’
application for good faith settlement with Defendants Del Rey Pool Plastering,
Inc. Alfredo Preciado, and Jose Maria Preciado is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
party to provide notice.
 
            
Dated:   June 6, 2024                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
