 Case Number:  23STCV00943    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



VIDA BEJEMINO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CONNECTED CARE RESOURCES, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV00943
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 12, 2023



 
On January 17, 2023, Plaintiff
Vida Bejemino filed this action against Defendant Connected Care Resources Inc.
arising from her employment.
On
April 3, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections to the Declaration of Eric Fox are overruled.  “For purposes of a petition to compel arbitration,
it is not necessary to follow the normal procedures of document authentication.  ‘[T]he court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists . . . .’  (§ 1281.2)  The statute does not require the petitioner to
introduce the agreement into evidence.  A
plain reading of the statute indicates that as a preliminary matter the court is
only required to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity.”  (Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219 (Condee).)
Plaintiff’s
Objections to the Reply Declaration of Portia Mina are overruled.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th
at p. 219.)  The burden then shifts to the
plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act, an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable to any
contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff
signed an Arbitration Agreement in connection with her employment on March 30, 2020.  (Motion at p. 3.)  Defendant provides a copy of the Arbitration Agreement,
in which the parties agreed to arbitrate “[a]ny and all disputes or claims by either
Party related to the Employee’s application for employment, the Employee’s employment,
and/or the Employee’s separation.”  (Fox Decl.,
Ex. 1.)
Plaintiff declares that she
does not recall signing an Arbitration Agreement regarding her employment with Defendant,
and if she had been asked to do so, she would not have signed it.  (Bejemino Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)
“[A] petitioner is not required
to authenticate an opposing party’s signature on an arbitration agreement as
a preliminary matter in moving for arbitration or in the event the authenticity
of the signature is not challenged.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)  But
when a plaintiff does not recall signing an agreement, the defendant has the burden
of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that a signature is authentic, i.e.,
that it was the act of the plaintiff.  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)
Defendant has not met its burden.  In reply, Defendant provides a declaration from
an employee who worked in Office Operations and assisted the Human Resources Department.  (Mina Decl. ¶ 1.)  This employee declares that Naveen Satija provided
Plaintiff with the Arbitration Agreement in March 2020, which was standard practice
for all employees.  (Mina Decl. ¶ 2.)  After Plaintiff signed it, the signed document
was maintained as a record in the regular course of business in Plaintiff’s personnel
file.  (Mina Decl. ¶ 2.)  Defendant’s Exhibit 1 “is substantially the same
document Naveen Satija collected and maintained on Defendants’ behalf in or about
March 2020.”  (Mina Decl. ¶ 3.)  However, the declarant did not witness Plaintiff
signing the agreement and does not demonstrate personal knowledge of Plaintiff’s
act of signing it.  Without personal knowledge
to authenticate Plaintiff’s signature, Defendant has not met its burden, and the
Court cannot determine that a valid agreement to arbitrate exists.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 12th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 