 Case Number:  24AHCV00334    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ANDREA PEELER, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PETER
   HANS WILLINGER,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00334
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR’S COMPROMISE 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   23, 2024



 
Claimant Andrea
 Peeler(“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Robert
 Peeler (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their claims against
Defendant Peter Hans Willinger in exchange for $100,000.  If approved, $6,615.22
will be used for medical expenses,  $25,000 will
be used for attorney’s fees, and $1,281.01
will be used for non-medical expenses, leaving a balance of $67,103.77
for Claimant to be invested in a single-premium deferred annuity, subject to
withdrawal only on authorization of the court.
Court approval is required for all
settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Probate
Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc. § 372.)  The Court has
reviewed the proposed settlement but is not inclined to approve it without
evidence that Claimant’s health plan and medical providers (La Verne Physical
Therapy, Providence Rezolut Imaging, and Vrijesh S. Tantuwaya, M.D.) have
agreed to accept a negotiated reduction to their liens. Accordingly, the Court
continues the hearing on this petition to _______________ at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse so that supplemental evidence of the
negotiated lien reductions can be filed. Supporting paperwork must be filed no
later than 5 court days before the hearing. 
Per California Rules of Court, Rule
7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at the hearing, unless the Court
finds good cause to excuse their appearance. 
The Court finds that neither Petitioner nor Claimant’s appearance is
necessary but will require Petitioner’s counsel to appear.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 23rd
 day of September 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 