 Case Number:  23NWCV02294    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  C Jessica Walker, a Minor by Her Gal Shanda D.
Brayboy vs Bellflower Unified School District, et al
Case No.: 23NWCV02294
Hearing Date: March 26, 2024 @ 10:30 AM
 
#11 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Bellflower Unified School District’s
Demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend.
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
Plaintiff Jessica Walker, a minor, by her Guardian ad Litem
Shanda D. Brayboy ("Plaintiff') sues Defendant Bellflower Unified School
District ("Defendant") for two causes of action: (1) negligent
supervision and (2) violating Civil Code section 52.1 (the Bane Civil Rights
Act). Both causes of action stem from an alleged May 9, 2022 fight at school which
Plaintiff alleges resulted in personal injury.
As of March 19, 2024, this motion is unopposed. 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings which are not challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words,
phrases, prayer for damages, etc.). (CCP §§ 435, 436 & 437.) A motion to
strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter,
or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (C.C.P. § 436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (C.C.P. § 437.)
Discussion 
In California, "to state a cause of action against a
public entity, every fact material to the existence of its statutory liability
must be pleaded with particularity." (City of Los Angeles v. Sup. Ct.
(2021) 62 Cal. App. 5th 129, 138.) In an action against a public entity,
Plaintiff "must set forth facts in [her] Complaint sufficiently detailed
and specific to support an inference that each of the statutory elements is
satisfied. General allegations are regarded as inadequate." (Mittenhuber
v. City of Redondo Beach (1983) 142 Cal. App. 3d 1, 5.) When complaints against
public entities contain "only conclusory or inferential claims of factual
causation, rather than particularized allegations of fact" they are
subject to demurrer.” (State Dept. of State Hosp. v. Sup. Ct. (Novoa) (2015) 61
Cal. 4th 339, 358.) 
First Cause of Action: Negligent Supervision 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring,
retention, or supervision are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or
supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the
employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the
employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
In its motion, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint
does not allege (1) which Defendant’s staff supervised her; (2) which of Defendant’s
staff were supposed to supervise her; (3) where Defendant's staff were located
or where they should have been located and when they should have been at their
required posting; (4) which Defendant staff failed to summon emergency medical
responders/law enforcement; ( 5) what Plaintiffs alleged injuries were and
their extent and how greater supervision could have prevented Plaintiffs
alleged injuries; ( 6) which Defendant staff were on notice of alleged frequent
fights at Mayfair High School and when and how they were on notice; (7) which Defendant
staff were on notice that Sanchez was allegedly a bully and when and how they
were on notice; (8) how Defendant's alleged failure to report Plaintiff's fight
to medical responders/law enforcement after the fact caused or could have
prevented Plaintiffs alleged injury; and (9) how long it look Defendant staff
to arrive and separate Plaintiff and Sanchez.
Plaintiffs do not oppose this motion, accordingly they do
not demonstrate how their Complaint is particularized to put Defendant on
notice. 
Further, having reviewed the Complaint the Court is not
persuaded that Plaintiffs have pleaded with particularity their claims. 
Accordingly, the Demurrer as to the First Cause of Action
is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
Second Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code
section 52.1
Civil Code section 52.1 bans interference with an
individual's rights by threat, intimidation, or coercion and states: If a
person or persons, whether or not acting under color of law, interferes by
threat, intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by threat,
intimidation, or coercion, with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual or
individuals of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or of the rights secured by the Constitution or laws of this state, the Attorney
General, or any district attorney or city attorney may bring a civil action for
injunctive and other appropriate equitable relief in the name of the people of
the State of California, in order to protect the peaceable exercise or
enjoyment of the right or rights secured. (Civil Code § 52.1 (b).) In addition
to claims brought by the Attorney General, district attorneys, and city
attorneys, Civil Code section 52.1 (c) allows individuals whose exercise or
enjoyment or rights has been interfered with to bring claims on their own
behalf.
"The essence of a Bane Act claim is that the
defendant, by the specified improper means (i.e., "threats, intimidation
or coercion"), tried to or did prevent the plaintiff from doing something
he or she had the right to do under the law or to force the plaintiff to do
something that he or she was not required to do under the law." (Austin
B. v. Escondido Union Sch. Dist. (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 860, 883.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to state a Bane Act
claim as to Defendant because she does not allege any facts showing that Defendant
interfered with any of her rights under federal or state law through
"threats, intimidation, or coercion." Plaintiff only alleges threat,
intimidation, or coercion by Defendant Sanchez. (Complaint, ¶ 5.) 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
 