 Case Number:  22NWCV01511    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  C Nyree Brown vs Michelle Wyatt
Case No.: 22NWCV01511
Hearing Date: March 26, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#5 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff’s Counsel Morey & Upton, LLC’s
motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
Counsel to give notice. 
 
This action arises out of a motor
vehicle accident. 
Plaintiff’s Counsel Morey &
Upton, LLP moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Nyree Brown. 
As of March 18, 2024 this motion
is unopposed. 
Good cause
exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and cannot
be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct, or (c)
insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or that is
prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct
renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the employment
effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal, that
the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice of the
member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal. 
The
attorney declaration demonstrates good cause for withdrawal based upon an asserted
conflict between Plaintiff and Counsel’s firm making it unreasonably difficult
to carry out the employment effectively. 
Counsel served the client by mail at the client's last known address.  Counsel has been unable to confirm that the
address is current or to locate a more current address for the client after
making multiple attempts to call, text and write to Plaintiff.  
Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED. 
 