 Case Number:  22STCV04508    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  C Raul Raygoza vs PIH Health Whittier Hospital
Case No.: 22STCV04508
Hearing Date: March 26, 2024 @ 10:30 AM 
 
#8 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant PIH Health Whitter Hospital’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
Defendant to give notice.
Background
This is an action brought by Plaintiff Raul Raygoza for the
treatment he allegedly received by healthcare providers while he was a patient
at PIH Health Whitter Hospital.  Plaintiff
brings seven causes of action for: (1) Assault; (2) Battery; (3) Medical
Negligence; (4) Sexual Battery; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (6) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (7) Negligent
Supervision.  Defendant moves for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on the grounds that Defendant
and its nurses, employees, and staff complied with the standard of care with
regard to the medical treatment of Plaintiff Raul Raygoza.
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant’s Objections to Declaration of
Plaintiff Raul Raygoza 
Objections Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 are SUSTAINED. 
Objection No. 3 is OVERRULED.
Defendant’s Objections to Declaration of Tyla
DiMaria, RN
Objections Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7 are SUSTAINED. 
 
Legal Standard 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)                                                                                             

“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)  “Once the defendant
. . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.”  (Id.)  “If the plaintiff cannot
do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi, supra, 159
Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
Discussion 
1.   
Third Cause of Action for Medical Negligence and Seventh Cause of Action
for Negligent Supervision
 
“[I]n ‘any medical malpractice action, the
plaintiff must establish: (1) the duty of the professional to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional’s negligence.’” (Powell v. Kleinman
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122, quoting Hanson v. Grade (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 601, 606.) “Both
the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by
expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.)
 
Thus,
in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within
the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985
(citations omitted).)  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider.  (Starr v. Mooslin
(1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988, 999.)
 
Here, Defendant submits the
expert declaration of Davina Leary, R.N., who opines that Defendant’s care and
treatment of Plaintiff was within the standard of care at all times and did not
cause the injuries alleged in this case. (Leary Decl., ¶ 7.) The declaration
asserts that nursing staff followed the requisite guidelines on administration
of pain medications.  (Leary Decl., ¶
10.) The declaration relies on a police report indicating that the Police
officers believed the nurses were acting in good faith and there was no crime.
(Leary Decl., ¶ 27.) The declaration further states that Plaintiff failed to
attend post-operative appointments with his neurosurgeon on March 17 and 23,
2021. (Leary Decl., ¶ 30.) Based on the medical record, Registered Nurse Leary
believes that the nursing care provided to Plaintiff was within the standard of
care and prudent and appropriate. (Leary Decl., ¶ 33.)
 
With the declaration of Davina Leary, R.N.,
and the relevant facts therein, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to raise
a triable issue of material fact.  
 
As to the Third Cause of
Action for Medical Negligence and Seventh Cause of Action for Negligent
Supervision, Plaintiff submits the declaration of Tyla DiMaria, R.N., who
opines that it is below the standard of care for a nurse to leave a patient
alone when the patient is a fall risk, to touch a patient on their private
parts without consent, to remove a drain from a patient’s neck without approval
from a physician, and to withhold medication prescribed by a doctor.  However, the declaration, which is two pages
long, does not disclose the material relied on in forming the opinion.
Therefore, the declaration is inadmissible. (Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 519, 524.)  Further, even if
the declaration was admissible, it does not describe or explain how Plaintiff’s
expert witness arrived at her conclusions. Therefore, Plaintiff fails to raise
a triable issue of material fact as to the Third and Seventh Causes of
Action.  
 
2.    First
Cause of Action for Assault, Second Cause of Action for Battery, Fourth Cause
of Action for Sexual Battery, Fifth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress, and the Sixth Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress.
 
Having found the Declaration
of Tyla DiMaria, R.N., to be inadmissible, the only remaining evidence in
support of Plaintiff’s Opposition comes from Plaintiff himself.  Plaintiff declares, “On another night during
my stay I was awakened in the middle of the night when I felt someone pulling
my underwear down. I realized there were two nurses in my room, a male nurse
and a female nurse. The male nurse had pulled down the back of my underwear and
was sticking his fingers in my anus. The female nurse was laughing and trying
to pull down the front of my underwear, but before she was able to do so I
grabbed at my underwear to stop her. Both nurses were extremely surprised that
I had awakened and quickly left the room.” (Raygoza Decl., ¶ 5.)  Defendant objects to this portion of
Plaintiff’s declaration as self-serving and inconsistent with this deposition
testimony.  During his deposition, Plaintiff
was asked, “Did [the male nurse] put his finger in your anus?” (Liu Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. A, 154:11.) Plaintiff responded, “He didn’t put his finger, but when he
went up like that, it rubbed against my anus. 
Yes, it did.” (Liu Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, 154:12-13.)  The Court determines that Plaintiff’s declaration
is inconsistent with his deposition testimony in so far as he stated in his
declaration that the male nurse “was sticking his fingers in my anus.”  The Court will disregard that portion of his
declaration. (D'Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1.)
Consequently, Plaintiff fails to produce evidence that the nurses intended to
harm him.  Plaintiff’s deposition
testimony – that the male nurse “rubbed against my anus” – does not establish an
intent to harm under these circumstances. 
Rather, it is consistent with attempts by nursing staff to check if
Plaintiff had a bowel movement. (Leary Decl., ¶ 21.) Therefore, Plaintiff has
not met his burden of raising a triable issue of material fact as to the First,
Second, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action.  
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED.