 Case Number:  22NWCV01752    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  C James Shayler vs RG SG Market LLC
Case No.: 22NWCV01752
Hearing Date: March 26, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#6 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant RG SG Market LLC’s Motion for Leave
to file a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a case arising out of an alleged ADA violation. 
Plaintiff James Shayler filed the action on December 29,
2022, for violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, California Civil Code § 51,
et seq. 
On September 21, 2023, Defendant RG SG Market LLC filed a
Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Compliant. 
As of March 18, 2024, no opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard 
C.C.P. §426.30(a) provides, as follows: “Except as
otherwise provided by statute, if a party against whom a complaint has been
filed and served fails to allege in a cross-complaint any related cause of
action which (at the time of serving his answer to the complaint) he has
against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter in any other action assert
against the plaintiff the related cause of action not pleaded.” 
C.C.P. §426.50 provides, as follows: 
“A party who fails to plead a
cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through
oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the
court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert
such cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice
to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the
parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert
such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”
C.C.P. §428.50 provides, as follows: 
(a) A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(b) Any other cross-complaint
may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial. 
(c) A party shall obtain leave
of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified
in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at
any time during the course of the action.
A cross-complaint is compulsory if it is transactionally
related to the subject matter of the complaint. (C.C.P. §426.10.) “To be
considered a compulsory cross-complaint, a related cause of action must have
existed at the time of the service of [the] answer to [the] complaint.” (Crocker
National Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.) The late filing
of a motion for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint “absent some
evidence of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion.”
(Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 101.)
“Permission to file a permissive cross-complaint is solely within the trial
court’s discretion.” (Crocker at 864.)
Discussion 
Defendant’s proposed cross-complaint is a compulsory
cross-complaint. The cross-complaint arises out of the same “transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences” as the causes of action
in Plaintiff’s complaint.  Specifically,
Defendant argues that Defendant’s counsel discovered that one of the current
tenants was responsible for the common areas of the premises where the alleged
ADA violations occurred. As such, Defendant has potential indemnity and
contribution claims against Cross-Defendant Chedraui USA that arise out of the
common area of the premises. These causes of action existed at the time
Defendant filed its answer. (CCP § 426.10.) 
In the proposed cross-complaint, Defendant asserts cause of action
against Cross-Defendant Chedraui USA for: (1) Express Contractual Indemnity;
(2) Contribution and Equitable Indemnity; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
As this motion is unopposed, Plaintiff submits no evidence
that they will be prejudiced or that Defendant is acting in bad faith.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint is GRANTED.
 
 
 