 Case Number:  23AHCV01866    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 22, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ANTHONY RUSSO v.
CITY OF PASADENA, a municipal corporation; PASADENA POLICE DEPARTMENT, a public
safety department  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01866
 
            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Pasadena 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Anthony Russo
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 18, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 5, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 12, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move to set the entry
of default.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Anthony
Russo’s claim that he wrongfully received adverse employment actions in his
position as a Police Lieutenant with the City of Pasadena Police Department.
Plaintiff filed this complaint on August 16, 2023, alleging four causes of
action for (1) relief for violation of POBRA, Government Code section 3309.5,
(2) whistleblower retaliation, Labor Code section 1102.5, (3) violation of due
process, and (4) violation of Meyers-Milias-Brown Act, Government Code section
3500, et seq. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’ motion to set aside the entry of default is
GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Section 473(b) provides for both discretionary and
mandatory relief. [Citation.]” (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
298, 302.)  The discretionary relief provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subd. (b) provide in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application
shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” 
 
The mandatory relief provision provides that a court shall grant
relief “whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc.
section 473, subd. (b).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
move to set aside the entry of default. Plaintiff filed this initial complaint
on August 16, 2023. Plaintiff filed proofs of service that stated that
Defendants were served on October 5, 2023. On November 14, 2023, Default was
entered against the City of Pasadena. On November 16, 2023, default was entered
against the Pasadena Police Department. 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff improperly sought default because an automatic extension
was in place. 
 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or
its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered,
so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of
either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (d).) 
 
“If the parties are not able to meet and
confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due, the
demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within
which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the
date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of
perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension
shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was previously due, and
the demurring party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.)
 
On
November 6, 2023, Defendants filed a declaration for the purpose of seeking an
extension pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.40, subdivision (a), provides that the demurer must be
filed within 30 days after service. The proofs of service provide that
Defendants were served on October 5, 2023. Thus, Defendants were required to
demurer, or in the alternative filed and serve an extension declaration, by
November 4, 2023. However, November 4, 2023, is a Saturday. California Rules of
Court, Rule 1.10, subdivision (a), provides: “The time in which any act provided
by these rules is to be performed is computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or other legal
holiday, and then it is also excluded.” Defendants declaration was timely. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the extension declaration is insufficient.
Plaintiff’s arguments are unavailing. On November 6, 2023, Defendant filed a
declaration that provided that Defendant sought an extension from Plaintiff on
October 31, 2023, because counsel had recently been retained for this matter.
(Tsai Decl. ¶ 4.) Notice of association of counsel was filed on November 2,
2023. (Id. ¶ 5.) On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel responded that
the extension would be granted if Defendants would file only an answer. (Id.
¶ 5.) The facts presented in the declaration make it clear that the parties
were not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the demurrer
was due. Thus, Plaintiff was entitled to the automatic extension.
 
Plaintiff’s two requests for entry of default were improper
because they were made within the extension period. Further, “the demurring party shall not be subject
to default during the period of the extension.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.) Thus, the defaults entered against Defendants
are void.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’ motion to set aside the entry of default is
GRANTED.
 
            Case
Management Conference to be set on April 22, 2024, at 8:30 am 
 
            The
Demurrer that is currently scheduled for July 16, 2024, will be advanced to
            
            to
April 22, 2024, at 8:30
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice.
 
            
Dated:   January 22,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
