 Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 13, 2023




            
            Defendant
Francini’s demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED as to
the generalized product identification language allegations, but DENIED as to
the prayer for punitive damages. 
 
            Defendant
Caesarstone’s demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
Parsoda’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant’s
motion to strike is GRANTED as to the generalized product identification
language allegations, and MOOT as to the prayer for punitive damages. 
 
Defendant
ASG’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant’s motion to
strike is GRANTED as to the generalized product identification language
allegations, and MOOT as to the prayer for punitive damages.
 
On 4/17/2023,
Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium. 
 
            Now,
Defendants Parsoda USA, Inc., Caesarstone USA, Architectural Surfaces Group,
LLC, and Francini, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) all separately demur to the fourth
cause of action for fraudulent concealment. For ease, the Court has
consolidated its analysis into a single ruling. 
 
Factual Background 
 
            This
is a toxic tort case arising from Plaintiff Jose Guadalupe Soto-Rodriguez’
(Plaintiff) claim that he developed silicosis and consequential injuries
through his employment working with stone products manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by Defendants. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment is
vague, ambiguous, and uncertain. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees and agrees in part.   
 
Francini
 
            As
for Francini, Plaintiffs allege that Francini knew that its product was
inherently dangerous due to its high crystalline silica content, and did not
provide warnings and instructions that are adequate to prevent silicosis. 
 
            In
its motion, Francini argues that these allegations are insufficiently specific
because Plaintiffs do not alleged facts which could show that Francini
willfully concealed this information with an intent to defraud, or that could
show that Francini knowingly concealed this information. However, facts which
could show or establish Francini’s knowledge or intent are contemplated by the
discovery process, not the pleading stage. Indeed, without discovery, it would
be nearly impossible for any Plaintiff to allege facts which could show what a
defendant knew or intended. Rather, to satisfy the specificity requirement,
Plaintiffs must allege facts which set forth “the what, how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means” of the underlying claim. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) Here,
Plaintiffs allege that Francini knew its product was inherently dangerous due
to its high crystalline silica content, and that it did not provide warnings
and instructions that are adequate to prevent silicosis. Moreover, Plaintiffs
include allegations that analyze the specific language in the Safety Data Sheet
provided by Francini and identify the ways in which the warnings were
inadequate and were intended to conceal the true risks. As such, Plaintiffs
have sufficiently alleged facts which could show what was allegedly concealed, and
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means Francini allegedly concealed
information. 
 
            These
allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage to maintain a fraudulent
concealment claim against Francini.
 
Parsoda and ASG
 
            The
Court finds the allegations against Parsoda and Architectural Surfaces Group
(ASG) to be inadequate to state a claim for fraudulent concealment. Unlike with
Francini, Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not contain a section which sets forth
allegations specific to Parsoda or ASG. Rather, the claims against ASG and
Parsoda are based on generalized allegations that all defendants failed
"to fully disclose the toxic and fibrogenic properties of their
products," (Complaint, ¶ 418) and that all defendants "were aware that
commonly used and recommended protective measures (e.g., use of wet processing
methods and air purifying respirators) were inadequate to prevent fabricators
and installers from getting silicosis," (Complaint, ¶ 498)
 
            Allegations
referring to all 39 Defendants are insufficiently specific. Just as Plaintiffs
alleged specific facts against Francini, Plaintiffs must advance specific
allegations as to what Parsoda and ASG are alleged to have concealed, how they
allegedly concealed it, when they allegedly concealed it, why they had a duty
to disclose, and by what means they allege Defendants concealed this
information from them.  
 
Caesarstone
 
            Finally,
as for Caesarstone, the Court finds the allegations to be sufficient at the
pleading stage. 
 
Under Bockrath, “[a]
plaintiff must allege facts albeit as succinctly as possible, explaining how
the conduct caused or contributed to the injury.” (Id. at p. 78.)
Specifically, a plaintiff must plead the following in his or her toxic tort complaint:
1) That he or she was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to have
caused a specific illness; 2) Each product that allegedly caused the injury; 3)
That as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body; 4) That he
suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was
a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that
illness; and 5) That each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a
named defendant. (Id. at p. 80.) 
 
As such, a
reference to undetermined products is improper: “[t]he law cannot tolerate
lawsuits by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple defendants on speculation
that their products may have caused harm over time through exposure to toxins
in them, and who thereafter try to learn through discovery whether their
speculation was well-founded.” (Id. at p. 81.) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint devotes an entire section to
Caesarstone products. These allegations include that:
 
Caesarstone
first began producing and exporting its artificial stone product in 1987, the
officers, directors, and managing agents of the company knew that Caesarstone
was an extremely toxic and dangerous product because it contained extremely
high concentrations of crystalline silica and the product had to be fabricated
and installed by workmen, which involved cutting, grinding, drilling, edging,
and polishing the product with electric-powered saws and tools that generates
huge amounts of respirable crystalline silica dust.
 
At
the time Caesarstone first began producing its artificial stone product in
1987, the company’s officers and directors were aware that the product
presented extraordinary risks of silicosis because, unlike marble (which
contained about 5% crystalline silica) and granite (which contained about 35%
crystalline silica), Caesarstone contained as much as 95% crystalline silica.
 
            (Complaint ¶ 119-120.)
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff has alleged that he was exposed to the toxic crystalline silica in Caesarstone products, and that
this exposure caused his silicosis. Plaintiffs alleges that while Caesarstone
markets different products, “all Caesarstone was essentially the same
artificial stone product made of the same essential ingredients (crystalline
silica, polymeric resin, pigments and additives), and all of these
“collections” had the same essential toxic properties and hazards.”  (Complaint ¶
122.) 
 
            Taken
together, Plaintiff has alleged facts to satisfy the Brockrath factors
as to each Caesarstone product. 
 
            Plaintiff
has also alleged sufficient facts to state a claim for fraud. Plaintiff’s
Complaint has an entire section dedicated to setting forth facts which could
show Caesarstone’s knowledge of the silicosis epidemic. (See Complaint ¶ ¶ 152-173.) This includes
the 2016 Research report analyzing silicosis from Caesarstone, and
Caesarstone’s January 2020 Safety Data Sheet. Plaintiff has alleged facts which
could show what was allegedly concealed, and how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means Caesarstone allegedly concealed information.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motions to Strike
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support a prayer for
punitive damages. Defendant Francini also argues that the generalized product
identification language “[a]nd other stone products to be identified through
the course of discovery” violates the toxic tort pleading requirements and
should be stricken.
 
            As
for the punitive damages prayer, the Court overruled Francini’s and
Caesarstone’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action. As such, Plaintiffs have
necessarily alleged sufficient facts to show Francini and Caesarstone engaged
in fraudulent conduct. 
 
However, the
Court sustained ASG’s and Parsoda’s demurrers, with leave to amend.
Accordingly, their motions to strike are moot. 
 
This leaves
only the contention that the generalized product identification language should
be struck (Caesarstone did not raise any argument concerning generalized
product identification language).
 
As for the
generalized product identification language, the Court agrees the “[a]nd other
stone products to be identified through the course of discovery” language must
be stricken. 
 
Under Brockrath, “[a]
plaintiff must allege facts albeit as succinctly as possible, explaining how
the conduct caused or contributed to the injury.” (Id. at p. 78.)
Specifically, a plaintiff must plead the following in his or her toxic tort
complaint: 1) That he or she was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed
to have caused a specific illness; 2) Each product that allegedly caused the
injury; 3) That as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body; 4)
That he suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his
body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating
that illness; and 5) That each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied
by a named defendant. (Id. at p. 80.) 
 
As such, a
reference to undetermined products is improper: “[t]he law cannot tolerate
lawsuits by prospecting plaintiffs who sue multiple defendants on speculation
that their products may have caused harm over time through exposure to toxins
in them, and who thereafter try to learn through discovery whether their
speculation was well-founded.” (Id. at p. 81.) 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motions to strike are moot in part, denied in part,
granted in part. Defendants ASG’s and Parsoda’s motions are moot as to punitive
damages. Defendant Francini’s and Caesarstone’s motions are denied as to
punitive damages. Defendants ASG’s, Parsoda’s, and Francini’s motions are
granted as to the generalized product identification language. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 