 Case Number:  23STCV02556    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  K Defendants Quemetco,
Inc., Quemetco West, LLC, Ecobat Resources California, Inc., Bruce Davis,
Michael Buckantz and Craig Clark’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
Background   
Plaintiff Jacqueline Brady,
individually and as successor-in-interest to the Estate of Eric Smith
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Plaintiff and her husband, Eric Smith
(“Smith”) lived near a battery recycling plant (“Plant”) located in the City of
Industry, California. Smith contracted terminal cancer due to toxic emissions
from Plant and died by suicide on February 5, 2021.
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Michael Emo, Sean Emo, Qu[e]metco Inc[.] and City of
Hope. On February 24, 2023, the case was ordered reassigned from Department 11
to the instant department.
On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff
filed five “Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein Quemetco West, LLC (“Quemetco
West”) was named in lieu of Doe 1, Ecobat Resources California, Inc. (“Ecobat”)
was named in lieu of Doe 2, Bruce Davis (“Davis”) was named in lieu of Doe 3,
Michael Buckantz (“Buckantz”) was named in lieu of Doe 4 and Craig Clark (“Clark”)
was named in lieu of Doe 5.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action therein against Quemetco, Inc.
(“Quemetco”), Quemetco West, Ecobat, Davis, Buckantz, Clark (collectively,
“Defendants”) and Does 6-100 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Negligence Per Se
3.                 
Strict Liability for Ultra-hazardous Activity
4.                 
Misrepresentation and Fraudulent Concealment 
5.                 
Nuisance 
6.                 
Trespass
A Case Management Conference is set for December 14, 2023.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Defendants demur, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10, to Plaintiff’s FAC on the basis that they
each fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Request for Judicial
Notice
The court grants Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice.
Merits
1.                 
Statute of
Limitations
Defendants argue
that all of Plaintiff’s claims in the FAC—whether styled as a survival or
wrongful death action—are time-barred because they accrued more than two years
before the FAC was filed on August 22, 2023.
“Where the complaint discloses on its face that the statute
of limitations has run on the causes of action stated in the complaint, it
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (ABF
Capital Corp. v. Berglass (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 825, 833.)  “If a demurrer demonstrates that a pleading is untimely on its
face, it becomes the plaintiff's burden ‘even at the pleading stage’ to
establish an exception to the limitations period.” (Fuller v. First Franklin
Financial Corp. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 955, 962).
The parties agree that the statute of limitations for
wrongful death from exposure to toxic chemicals is “two years from the date of
the death of the plaintiff’s decedent.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.8, subd. (b).) Further,
the statute of limitations for “any civil action for injury or illness based
upon exposure to a hazardous material or toxic substance” is “two years from
the date of injury.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.8, subd. (a).)[1]
“The toxic exposure statute embraces ‘any’ civil action,” which would include
Plaintiff’s claims for nuisance and trespass. (Lopez v. Sony Electronica,
Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 627, 635, citing § 340.8, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff does not
dispute that she has not pled the discovery rule[2]
or the doctrine of fraudulent concealment[3]
to toll her claims. Plaintiff, however, asserts that the relation-back doctrine
permits her to associate the FAC with the original complaint (filed February 6,
2023).
The relation-back doctrine “holds that if a new cause of action
added by amendment ‘relates back’ to the claims of the initial complaint, the
new cause of action will be deemed, for purposes of the statute of limitations,
to have been filed on the date of filing of the initial complaint.” (Brumley
v. FDCC California, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 312, 319; see also Curtis
Engineering Corp. v. Superior Court (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 542, 548 [“Where
the statute of limitations has expired before the filing of an amended
complaint, unless an amended complaint relates back to a timely filed original
complaint, the amended complaint will be time-barred”].) “Under the
relation-back doctrine, to avoid the statute of limitations bar, the amended
complaint must allege the same general set of facts, refer to the same
accident, same injuries, and refer to the same instrumentality as alleged in
the original complaint.” (Id. [emphasis added]).
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s complaint and FAC are not
based on the same general set of facts “given the total lack of factual
allegations in the Complaint” (Dem., 16:26-27). The court agrees.
Code of Civil Procedure § 425.10 states that a complaint must
contain “[a] statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language.” “The relation-back doctrine requires [the
court] to compare the factual allegations in the original and amended
complaints.” (Scholes v. Lambirth Trucking Co. (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th
590, 598). “In determining whether the amended complaint alleges facts that are
sufficiently similar to those alleged in the original complaint, [the court] considers
whether the defendant had adequate notice of the claim based on the original
pleading.” (Id. at 599). “Just as a plaintiff who changes the essential
facts upon which recovery is sought is not entitled to the benefits of the
relation-back doctrine, so too a plaintiff who files a complaint containing no
operative facts at all cannot subsequently amend the pleading to allege facts
and a theory of recovery for the first time and claim the amended complaint
should be deemed filed as of the date of the original, wholly defective
complaint: Going from nothing to something is as much at odds with the
rationale for allowing an amended pleading to relate back to the filing of the
original documents as changing from one set of facts to a different set.” (Id.
at 598 [quotations and citation omitted].)
In Scholes, self-represented plaintiff filed his
original complaint against Lambirth Trucking Company (“Lambirth”) and its
insurer and stated it was for a “dispute compensation on insurance claim.” The
original complaint further alleged “[d]efendants have accepted liability,
dispute amount of damages from fire” and sought “compensation for property
loss.” Nothing else was listed in or attached to the original complaint. Plaintiff
subsequently filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) for negligent
trespass, intentional trespass, and strict liability (trespass through
unnatural activity). Lambirth demurred to the TAC, arguing it was barred
by the statute of limitations and failed to state a viable claim for
intentional trespass or strict liability. The trial court sustained the
demurrer without leave to amend and the court of appeal affirmed, determining
that the original complaint failed to meet section 425.10, subdivision (a)’s
minimal fact pleading requirement: “[t]he original complaint does not identify
the property at issue or specify the damages suffered . . . fails to specify
the date, origin, or scope of the fire. . . does not set forth the
relationship between the parties or any duties owed to [plaintiff] by Lambirth.
. . [and fails to] specify any causes of action except for checking the box for
‘Property Damage’.” (Id. at 598).
In Davaloo v. State Farm Ins. Co. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
409, two plaintiffs filed identically worded complaints against State Farm for
breach of contract and bad faith for alleged damage to their properties caused
by the Northridge earthquake. The complaints mentioned the parties by name in
the caption only and set forth “numerous, generic allegations” against
“Defendants” based on State Farm’s purported failure to pay policy benefits for
Northridge earthquake damage. The complaints did not provide the addresses for
plaintiffs’ respective properties, failed to provide any information about the
respective policies (stating only that they consisted of “a written contract as
orally amended”) and contained no allegations as to any particular dispute
between either plaintiff and State Farm. The trial court subsequently sustained
State Farm’s demurrers to plaintiffs’ respective First Amended Complaints
(“FAC”) without leave to amend, finding that, since the original complaints
were factually devoid, the FACs did not relate back to the filing of the
original complaints and were thus time-barred and not revived by Code of Civil
Procedure § 340.9. The court of appeal affirmed, finding that “the original
complaints [were] so devoid of factual allegations they fail[ed] to meet
section 425.10, subdivision (a)’s minimal fact-pleading requirement and [were]
the functional equivalent of no complaint at all.” (Id. at 417).
Here, Plaintiff filed her 3-page original complaint on the Judicial Council form for personal
injury, property damage, and wrongful death actions (PLD-P1-001). Plaintiff
listed herself as the sole plaintiff and identified four defendants (including
“Quemetco Inc.”) and Does 1-10 in the caption. Plaintiff did not allege her
relationship to any decedent or even allege that there was a decedent.
PLD-P1-001 permits plaintiffs to either describe the action as related to a
“MOTOR VEHICLE” or “OTHER,” with an italicized instruction to “specify” the
nature of the action if the “OTHER” box is checked. Plaintiff checked the box
for “OTHER” and wrote, “Self inflicted gun shot.”
Under that,
Plaintiff also checked boxes for “Property Damage,” Wrongful Death” and “Other
Damages,” which she specified with the word, “Consortium.” Paragraph 10 of
PLD-P1-001 requires a plaintiff to specify “causes of action” that “are
attached” and provides, in italics, that “each complaint must have one of more causes of action attached.” Plaintiff checked boxes the boxes for
“General Negligence” and “Other,” which she specified as “Intimidation and
breech [sic] of duty.” No causes of action, however, were attached to the
complaint. In Paragraph 11, Plaintiff alleged that she suffered “wage loss,”
“general damage[s],” “property damage[s],” “loss of earning capacity” and
“[l]oss of consortium, pain and suffering.” In Paragraph 12, Plaintiff
identified “[t]he damages claimed for wrongful death and the relationships of
plaintiff to the deceased” as follows: (1) “Michael and Sean Emo failed to
secure the firearm”, (2) “Qumetco is a toxic facility, know [sic] to fail
safety air quality” and (3) “City of hope failed to provide proper care, and
support.” No other substantive allegations against any defendant or Doe
defendants were made.
Plaintiff
thereafter obtained representation and filed the 25-page FAC on August 22,
2023. Plaintiff’s FAC asserts causes of action against Quemetco, Inc.,
Quemetco West, LLC, Ecobat Resources California, Inc., Bruce Davis, Michael
Buckantz, Craig Clark[4] and Does
6-100 for Negligence,
Negligence Per Se, Strict Liability for Ultra-hazardous Activity,
Misrepresentation and Fraudulent Concealment, Nuisance and Trespass. The
caption indicates that it is a “Wrongful Death/Survival Action.” Plaintiff’s
FAC makes no reference to the “failure to secure a firearm” or a
“[s]elf-inflicted gun shot.” Plaintiff identifies her husband, Eric Smith (“Smith”), as the decedent and alleges that
“[a]s a result” of emissions from Defendants’ plant, Smith contracted terminal
cancer and died by suicide on February 5, 2021. (FAC, ¶ 28).
Plaintiff’s
original complaint is, as in Davaloo, “so devoid of factual allegations [it]
fail[s] to meet section 425.10, subdivision (a)’s minimal fact-pleading
requirement and [is] the functional equivalent of no complaint at all.” (Davaloo, supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at 417.)
Next, Defendants argue that the complaint and FAC do not
allege common injuries; again, the court agrees. Plaintiff’s injuries in the
FAC flow from Defendants’ alleged emission of cancer-causing toxins, which
Plaintiff asserts resulted in Smither’s terminal cancer. “Cancer,” however, is
not even mentioned in the complaint; instead, the only identified injury set
forth therein is a “[s]elf-inflicted gun shot.” It is not clear who was injured
by the gunshot, nor that this individual died.
Defendants argue that the complaint and FAC do not share
common instrumentalities; again, the court agrees. The principal allegations of
harm in Plaintiff’s complaint relate to a gun, whereas the FAC focuses on
alleged cancer-causing emissions from Plant. It appears, from the scant
allegations in the complaint, that Plaintiff attributes whatever injury the
unidentified individual sustained from the “[s]elf inflicted gun shot” from
“Michael and Sean Emo[‘s] fail[ure] to secure the firearm.”
The court also agrees with Defendants’ position that
Plaintiff’s survival claims in the FAC fail to relate back to the original
complaint, inasmuch as Plaintiff did not allege any claims as a
successor-in-interest, did not identify a decedent, did not allege any facts
regarding any loss or damage sustained or incurred by a decedent before death,
and did not otherwise style the complaint as a survival action. (See Quiroz
v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1278 [“Here, we readily
conclude. . .that the survivor cause of action pleaded a different injury than the initial complaint. We
also conclude that the two claims in the amended pleading were asserted by
different plaintiffs, Maria G. Quiroz acting in two separate capacities with
respect to each, and that the addition of fresh allegations concerning her
representative capacity in pursuit of the new survivor claim was not just
the mere technical substitution of the proper party plaintiff on a previously
existing claim. This survivor claim, which plaintiff pursued as the decedent's
successor in interest, pleaded injury to the decedent, Gilbert Quiroz. In
contrast, the earlier-filed wrongful death claim pleaded only injury to
plaintiff, acting for herself, as the decedent's heir. As a matter of law,
these distinct claims are technically asserted by different plaintiffs and they
seek compensation for different injuries”] .)
As an aside, the fact that Plaintiff filed the original
complaint in pro per is of no particular significance here; indeed, the plaintiff
in Scholes and the plaintiffs in Quiroz (initially) were also
self-represented. As noted in Scholes, supra, 10 Cal.App.5th at 595: “A party may
choose to act as his or her own attorney. We treat such a party like any other
party, and he or she is entitled to the same, but no greater consideration than
other litigants and attorneys.” 
Defendants’ demurrer to the entire FAC is sustained on the
basis of the statute of limitations.
2.                 
Fraudulent Concealment 
Defendants additionally demur to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action, for Fraudulent Concealment, on the basis that it fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The court agrees. “[T]he elements
of an action for fraud and deceit based on concealment are: (1) the defendant
must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have
been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must
have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud
the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would
not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,
and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA)
Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613).
“Fraud allegations must be pled with more detail than other
causes of action. The facts constituting the fraud, including every element of
the cause of action, must be alleged factually and specifically.” (Apollo
Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226,
239 [internal quotations and citation omitted]). “[T]he requirement that
‘[f]raud must be pleaded with specificity’ applies equally to a cause of action
for fraud and deceit based on concealment.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472 [citation omitted].) “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73 [internal
quotations and citation omitted].)
Plaintiff has failed to allege the fourth cause of action
with specificity; as such, Defendants’ demurrer thereto is also sustained on
this basis.


