


[1]           Code of Civil
Procedure § 340.8 reads, in relevant part, as follows: (a) In any civil action
for injury or illness based upon exposure to a hazardous material or toxic
substance, the time for commencement of the action shall be no later than
either two years from the date of injury, or two years after the plaintiff
becomes aware of, or reasonably should have become aware of, (1) an injury, (2)
the physical cause of the injury, and (3) sufficient facts to put a reasonable
person on inquiry notice that the injury was caused or contributed to by the
wrongful act of another, whichever occurs later. (b) In an action for the
wrongful death of any plaintiff's decedent, based upon exposure to a hazardous
material or toxic substance, the time for commencement of an action shall be no
later than either (1) two years from the date of the death of the plaintiff's
decedent, or (2) two years from the first date on which the plaintiff is aware
of, or reasonably should have become aware of, the physical cause of the death
and sufficient facts to put a reasonable person on inquiry notice that the
death was caused or contributed to by the wrongful act of another, whichever
occurs later.”


[2]              The discovery rule “postpones
accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to
discover, the cause of action.” (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
383, 397.) “In order to rely on the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a
cause of action, a plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim
would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically
plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the
inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.” (Fox
v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808 [internal
quotations and citation omitted; italics in original].)


[3]              “[T]he doctrine of fraudulent
concealment. . . tolls the statute of limitations if a defendant’s deceptive
conduct has caused a claim to grow stale. In support of th[e] doctrine [of
fraudulent concealment], a plaintiff must allege the supporting facts—i.e., the date of
discovery, the manner of discovery, and the justification for the failure to
discover the fraud earlier—with the same particularity as with a cause of
action for fraud.” (Fuller v. First Franklin Financial Corp. (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 955, 962 [internal quotations and citations omitted].).


[4]              Quemetco West, LLC, Ecobat
Resources California, Inc., Bruce Davis, Michael Buckantz and Craig Clark were
formerly named as Does 1-5, respectively.

