 Case Number:  22CHCV00236    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
9-25-23 (TBH with Motion to Compel Compliance Originally Calendared for
9-12-23)
Case
#22CHCV00236 (consolidated with 22CHCV00319)
Trial
Date: 6-17-24
 
COMPEL/QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
 
MOVING
PARTY: Cross-Complainant, Mina Kateb 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Cross-Defendants, Monocent, Inc., et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion to Compel Compliance with the Deposition Subpoena
 
Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
22CHCV00236
Defendant
Mina Kateb was “hired … as a managing director” with Plaintiff Monocent, Inc. on
an unspecified date for an unspecified period of time. Monocent alleges Kateb
improperly diverted customers, vendors, and business suppliers for “personal
benefit,” diverting future business, and taking trade secrets. 
 
On
April 7, 2022, Monocent filed its complaint for Breach of Fiduciary Duty–Duty
of Loyalty, Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care, Intentional Interference
with Prospective Business Advantage, Negligent Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage, Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations,
Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, Negligence,
Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation, Fraud—Negligent Misrepresentation,
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, and Declaratory Relief. On October 13, 2022,
the court sustained the demurrer of Kateb to the complaint. On November 14,
2022, Monocent filed a first amended complaint for Breach of Fiduciary
Duty–Duty of Loyalty, Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care, Intentional
Interference with Prospective Business Advantage, Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage, Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations, Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200,
Negligence, Fraud—Intentional Misrepresentation, Fraud—Negligent
Misrepresentation, Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, and Declaratory Relief.
 
On February 6, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the Breach of Fiduciary Duty–Duty of Loyalty, Intentional
Interference with Prospective Business Advantage, Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage, Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations, Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, without
leave to amend. The demurrer to the Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care and
Fraud – Negligent Misrepresentation causes of action were sustained with leave
to amend. On March 8 and 15, 2023, Kateb filed an answer and first amended
answer to the remaining causes of action in the first amended complaint.
 
22CHCV00319
On
May 10, 2022, Mina Kateb filed a complaint for Fraudulent Representation, Breach
of Fiduciary Duty–Duty of Loyalty, Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care (3rd
and 4th), Negligence, Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code section
1102.5, Wrongful Constructive Termination, Unfair Competition, Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations, Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, Breach
of Contract, and Declaratory Relief. On June 15, 2022, Kateb filed a first amended
complaint for Fraudulent Representation, Breach of Fiduciary Duty–Duty of
Loyalty, Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care (3rd and 4th),
Negligence, Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, Wrongful
Constructive Termination, Unfair Competition, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, Defamation, Intentional
Interference with Prospective Contractual Relations, Negligent Interference
with Prospective Contractual Relations, Breach of Contract, and Declaratory
Relief.
 
On
June 27, 2022, the court entered the stipulation of the parties relating and
consolidating the cases. On December 30, 2022, the court whereby the court
clarified the consolidation stipulation: 22CHCV00236 remains the lead case, and
22CHCV00319 now presents as a cross-complaint. 
 
On February 6, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the Breach of
Fiduciary Duty–Duty of Loyalty, Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care, Breach
of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care, Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code
section 1102.5, Wrongful Constructive Termination, and Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress causes of action, and overruled the demurrer to the
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress cause of action, in the first
amended cross-complaint. On March 9, 2023, Kateb filed the second amended
cross-complaint for Fraudulent Representation, Breach of Fiduciary Duty–Duty of
Loyalty (Taheri), Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Duty of Care (3rd (Taheri)
and 4th (Sahrapeyma)), Negligence, Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5, Wrongful Constructive Termination, Unfair Competition,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Defamation, Intentional
Interference with Prospective Contractual Relations, Negligent Interference
with Prospective Contractual Relations, Breach of Contract, and Declaratory
Relief. The second amended cross-complaint specifically skips from the ninth to
the eleventh cause of action, thereby omitting the previously alleged claim for
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.On June 27, 2023, the court
overruled the demurrer to the second amended cross-complaint of Kateb. Monocent
answered the second amended cross-complaint on July 5, 2023. 
 
On
August 21, 2023, Nadia Taheri, in pro per, filed an answer.
 
RULING: Granted, Compel/Denied,
Protective Order
Mina
Kateb moves to compel compliance with the deposition subpoena seeking the
Daneshrad Tax & Audit Consultants report prepared on behalf of Monocent,
Inc. (Monocent) Monocent filed a separate motion to quash and alternatively
stay any subpoena for said records. The court consolidates the motions into a
single ruling.
 
Kateb
brings the motion to compel based on a claim of a shareholder interest in
Monocent, and the refusal to provide copies of records. Monocent declines to
produce the records on grounds of denial of any shareholder interest in
Monocent, and therefore a right to examination of the documents. Kateb relies
on an argument of waiver of any objections by the subpoenaed third party.
Monocent’s opposition to the motion to compel contends the motion lacks a
sufficient meet and confer effort, and the motion to compel only comes after a
“third” unilateral cancellation of a prior scheduled deposition of Kateb. Mononcent
also maintains the sought after discovery exceeds the scope of discovery on the
basis of burdensome and relevance, and seeks privacy protected information.
Kateb in reply maintains the subpoena only seeks relevant evidence. Kateb
denies any protection from discovery, and even if privacy privileges exist, a
compelling interest exists.
 
“If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness … the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), … may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy.”  directing compliance with it upon those terms
or conditions as the court shall declare...” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A party to the action
may bring the motion to enforce or protective order. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (b)(1).)
 
Kateb moves entirely on the basis of a waiver based on the
deponent’s failure to serve formal objections, and instead a promise to produce
prior to intervention by Monocent. The motion depends on authority based in
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 and 2025.410. (Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.)
 
(a) Any
party served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2
(commencing with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that
party promptly serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity
at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is
scheduled, on the party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney
or party on whom the deposition notice was served.
(b) If an
objection is made three calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting
party shall make personal service of that objection pursuant to Section 1011 on
the party who gave notice of the deposition. Any deposition taken after the
service of a written objection shall not be used against the objecting party
under Section 2025.620 if the party did not attend the deposition and if the
court determines that the objection was a valid one.
(c) In
addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order
staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice. This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. The taking of the deposition is stayed pending the determination of
this motion.
 
Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410
 
The subpoena was served on March 21, 2023, with a production
compliance date on or before April 27, 2023. On March 31, 2023, Deponent
represented an unwillingness to comply based on the instruction of counsel for
Monocent. [Declaration of Alexander Gura.] Kateb maintains the position that
the communication from the deponent insufficiently constitutes an objection in
that the response was not presented as a “formal objection.” Monocent offers no
specific response to this omission of objections, and instead seeks to
challenge the validity of the motion, with now interspersed objections and within
the motion for protective order.
 
The plain language of the statute supports the finding of a
waiver in that no objections were served. Kateb was in no way obliged to meet
and confer, and nothing in the opposition cites any basis of authority for this
requirement. 
 
Monocent otherwise provides no support for the argument against
the waiver of any and all privilege objections by the third party. Nevertheless,
while any and all privilege objections were not presented, a party may wait
until the time of the deposition itself to invoke any privilege objections. (Monarch Healthcare v. Superior Court (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1290.) The court therefore
finds no waiver of the privacy and also unstated tax return objections.
 
While the parties extensively address personal privacy
objections, the court begins at the threshold consideration: a corporate
defendant is not an individual entitled to invoke the constitutional right to
privacy. (SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 741, 755.) Lesser privacy rights apply to corporate entities,
which depends “on the circumstances.” (Ameri-Medical Corp. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1260, 1288.) A corporation exercises no reasonable expectation of
privacy, but “the nature of the interest sought to be protected will
determine the question whether under given facts the corporation per se has
a protectible privacy interest.” (Ibid.)

 
Tax returns are privileged, but the privilege is not
absolute. (Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 720; Deary
v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1080.) The privilege protects
all entries made on tax returns such as amounts of income reported, deductions
claimed, etc. In other words, the content of the return, as well as production
of the returns themselves, is privileged. 
(Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 7 [“Assuming
Revenue and Taxation Code section 7056 protects the returns themselves, it is
reasonable to conclude that it must also protect the information contained in
the returns”].) A compelling reason for discovery must be presented. (Fortunato v. Superior Court (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 475, 483.)
 
Of the 75 listed items in the subpoena numbers 54-55
specifically seek tax records, while numbers 28-30 seek documents “related” to
the tax returns. The declaration and motion itself fails to actually parse the
items in dispute, if applicable. The court declines to speculate as to which of
the 75 items the motion may or not apply, other than the four explicitly
identified items. 
 
Given the limited factual argument and legal authority on
tax records and corporate privacy standards, the court finds the vaguely
described “tax” records are privileged for the privately held corporate entity.
The court therefore considers a compelling interest for production. Kateb
relies on an assumption of a shareholder relationship, thereby entitling
production. 
 
The court declines to consider any ruling on the prior
demurrers as a statement of fact, but notes paragraphs 47 and 48 of the second
amended complaint specifically seek production of records as a shareholder. The
court overruled the demurrer on the derivative liability based claims of Kateb.
The court therefore finds no basis preventing discovery as an alleged, not
factually determined shareholder for purposes of conducting discovery. It’s a
shareholder’s right to conduct discovery into corporate records against an
entity without any other established constitutionally protected privacy
interest.
 
In the case of a protective order, the burden of proof is on
the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for the order he or
she seeks. (Fairmont Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) “A meet and confer
declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) The court record electronic filing
system shows no separately filed opposition or reply to the motion for
protective order, and assumes the arguments were subsumed within the motion to
compel. The motion contains the requisite meet and confer, but as addressed
above, fails to demonstrate any privilege barring production of the sought
after tax documents. Again, any and all other objections were waived. Kateb
establishes a right to production of tax records.
 
The motion to compel is granted, and the motion for
protective order is denied. As stated above, the court cannot determine the
scope of the 75 items, but given the guidelines presented regarding the
production, the court assumes all items fall under a waiver of objections, a
right to discovery as a shareholder, and/or a compelling interest. 
 
The subject
action continues to present an inordinate burden on court resources. Further
extensive discovery disputes with minimally factually and legally supported
arguments may lead to referral to a discovery referee, including a supervised
deposition, if necessary. Any disputes subsequently raised requiring
item-by-item consideration may also justify referee referral.
 
Motion to Compel
the Deposition of Kateb set for December 22, 2023.
 
Kateb to give notice on both orders.
 