 Case Number:  22CHCP00338    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F-49


 




Date: 9-25-23


 




Case No:
22CHCP00338
Trial
  Date: Not Set
 


 



 
STRIKE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Ararat Yousefi 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Armen Vardanyan
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED:
Motion to
Strike the Cross-Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Ararat Yousefi alleges the formation of a partnership with defendant Armen
Vardanyan and a subsequent oral agreement for the purpose acquiring, renovating
and reselling 10330 Eton Ave., Chatsworth. The agreement required the property
purchased in the name of Defendant, with the later addition of Plaintiff to
title upon the completion of renovations. Plaintiff further represents
agreement to a one-half interest in the property at all relevant times.
 
The
property was apparently acquired with funds provided by Plaintiff.
Notwithstanding the agreement, Plaintiff alleges Defendant used some or all of
said funds for purposes not related to the acquisition and/or renovations, plus
allegedly committed “waste” at other properties owned by the parties
 
On September
28, 2022, plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Dissolution of Partnership, Quiet Title, and Declaratory
Relief. On October 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed a notice of pending action. On
April 17, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer with 30 days leave to amend as
to the quiet title cause of action, and overruled as to the remainder. The
court found the motion to strike is moot as to the quiet title cause of action,
denied as to the challenges to the entire operative complaint, and granted the
motion to strike as to the claims for punitive damages in the second cause of
action.
 
On May 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed a verified first amended complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Dissolution of Partnership, Quiet Title,
and Declaratory Relief. On July 18, 2023, Vardanyan filed a cross-complaint
against Yousefi and Cheryl Balquiedra for Breach of Limited Partnership
Agreement, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Negligent
Misrepresentation, Intentional Misrepresentation, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Conversion, Accounting, and
Dissolution of Partnership. 
 
On June
16, 2023, Defendant answered the complaint and filed a cross-complaint for
Breach of Limited Partnership Agreement, Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, Negligent Misrepresentation, Intentional
Misrepresentation – Fraud, Intentional infliction of Emotional Distress, Breach
of Fiduciary Duty, Conversion, Accounting, and Dissolution of Partnership. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Yousefi moves to
strike the claim for punitive damages in the second cause of action for Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (Paragraph 55). Yousefi
challenges the ability of a party to recover punitive damages on a bad faith
cause in a non-insurance context. Vardanyan in opposition maintains the
cross-complaint sufficiently articulates facts in support of the claim for
separate and independent conduct outside the contractual context. The court
electronic filing system shows no reply at the time of the tentative ruling
publication cutoff.

A “general rule” precluding tort recovery in the noninsurance context, absent a
showing of an “independent duty,” bars recovery of punitive damages in a breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing claim. (Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 102.) Cross-Complainant
acknowledges the rule and relies on the allegations of the separate fiduciary
duty alleged within the same cause of action as a basis of merging with the
challenging claim and creating a basis for tortious recovery of punitive
damages. [Cross-Comp.,¶¶ 46, 49.]
 
“An act such as breach
of fiduciary duty may be both a breach of contract and a tort. [¶] ‘Whether an
action is based on contract or tort depends upon the nature of the right sued
upon, not the form of the pleading or relief demanded. If based on breach of
promise it is contractual; if based on breach of a noncontractual duty it is
tortious. [Citation.] If unclear the action will be considered based on
contract rather than tort. [Citation.] [¶] In the final analysis we look to the
pleading to determine the nature of plaintiff's claim.’” (Kangarlou v. Progressive Title Co., Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1178–1179.)
 
The subject motion to strike requires consideration of
unchallenged allegations for purposes of determining whether the
cross-complaint sufficiently alleges a separate and independent basis of
tortious conduct. The
court declines to turn the subject motion into the functional equivalent of a
demurrer. (PH II, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682-1683 [While a demurrer is not
the exclusive means to challenge a cause of action, a motion to strike
generally applies to parts of a cause of action, claim for damages, or where
the cause of action or primary right is barred as a matter of law.]; Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281 [“Where a whole cause of action is the proper
subject of a pleading challenge, the court should sustain
a demurrer to the cause of action rather than grant
a motion to strike”].) The court declines to make a
determination regarding the validity of the claim based on bootstrapped
allegation of a fiduciary duty. 
 
The motion to strike is denied. 
Cross-defendant is ordered to answer within 20 days from the date of
this order.
 
Motion for
Leave to Amend scheduled for January 30, 2024.
 
Cross-Defendant
to give notice.
 