 Case Number:  23TRCV01277    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling HEARING DATE:                 April 26 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01277 CASE NAME:                        Ariana Fields v. LAZ Karp Associates, LLC, et al. MOVING PARTY:                (1) Defendant, City of Inglewood                                               RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Plaintiff, Ariana FieldsTRIAL DATE:                        Not Set  MOTION:                              (1) Defendant, City of Inglewood’s Demurrer                                               Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED.  Leave to amend to be discussed     I. BACKGROUND A. FactualOn April 24, 2023, Plaintiff, Ariana Fields’ (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, LAZ Karp Associates, LLC, Serco Group, City of Inglewood, County of Los Angeles, and DOES 1 through 25. On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Intentional Tort; (2) General Negligence; and (3) Motor Vehicle Negligence. On February 6, 2024, this Court previously sustained demurrers to Plaintiff’s original Complaint, filed by different defendants, including one filed by Defendant, City of Inglewood (“City”). After Plaintiff amended the original complaint, Defendant City files a new demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. B. Procedural               On March 29, 2024, Defendant City filed a Demurrer. On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On April 18, 2024, Defendant City filed a reply brief.   II. GROUNDS FOR MOTIONS             Defendant City demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that it argues Plaintiff’s entire FAC fails to plead sufficient facts to state a cause of action against City and fails to state every fact material to the claimed existence of the City’s government tort liability. III. ANALYSIS A.    Legal Standard A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) B.     Discussion In this Court’s previous February 6, 2024 minute order sustaining City’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint, this Court noted that it disagreed with Plaintiff that she is exempt from complying with pleading requirements when the defendant is a public entity. This Court further noted that Plaintiff’s original complaint did not include any allegations as to statutory liability on the part of City including section 815.2. The Court also reasoned, that even if Plaintiff had made mention of Government Code section 815.2, that the Complaint would still be uncertain as it does not identify Doe 1 as an employee of Defendant City or that he or she was acting in the course and scope of public entity employment. In fact, in the original complaint, Plaintiff identifies Doe 1 as an employee of Serco Group, and the only mention of City was in some contractual relation with Serco Group. Since filing her FAC, Defendant City argues that Plaintiff still fails to comply with the requirements for maintaining an action against a public entity and that the suit as against the City remains uncertain. City notes that Plaintiff is alleging all of the same common law causes of action (Intentional Tort, General Negligence, and Motor Vehicle Negligent) as the initial complaint, but now all against City, but without making any reference to a viable statutory grounds for the same. This Court notes that the FAC has changed the employer of Defendant Doe 1 from being Defendant Serco Group, to now including that Doe 1, now identified as Marylani Olive Togiola, as an employee of Defendant Serco Group, City of Los Angeles, and City of Inglewood. Plaintiff also states, as referenced in City’s moving papers, that Plaintiff alleges that California Government Code section 815.2(a) “governs public entity liability for the acts of its employees/agents/representatives and outlines Defendant City of Inglewood [Demurring Defendant Here], and/or City of Los Angeles vicariously liable to Plaintiff Ariana Fields for the actions of their employee/agent/representative Defendant Marylani Olive Togiola.” This is a misrepresentation of the law. Government Code section 815.2(a) states: “A public entity is liable for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his personal representative.” (Gov. Code, § 815.2(a).) Here, this Court notes that a demurrer tests the sufficiency of factual allegations in a pleading on their face. As such, Defendant City’s argument that Defendant, Marylani Olive Togiola was an employee of an outside vendor of the City worked is of no merit on demurrer, since it is beyond the four corners fo the FAC or any matters of which the Court has been requested to take judicial notice. As such, the Court does not have discretion, on demurrer, to consider such facts or arguments. However, what this Court can do is acknowledge that the FAC still contains uncertainties. As this Court has noted in its last minute order, because all liability under the Government Claims Act is statutory, “the general rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.”¿ (Susman¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(1969) 269 Cal.App.2d 803, 809.)¿The Court does not find that Plaintiff has plead her FAC with particularity. There are no allegations that Serco Group is a public entity. In fact, Plaintiff’s FAC identifies Serco Group as “a business organization, form unknown.” As such, Plaintiff’s FAC is alleging that Defendant, Marylani Olive Togiola was employed by Serco Group, a private business organization, but also employed (at the same time) with City of Inglewood or Los Angeles.   While there are very limited circumstances that a dual employer relationship can be alleged, there are insufficient details in the FAC for the Court to find that the FAC so claims.  This is not a pleading that is plead with particularity as the alleged tort committing employee cannot simultaneously be working in the course and scope of her employment for numerous entities, both public and private, when committing the alleged tort violations. This allegation is also contrary to the previous pleading without adequate explanation. Further, this Court notes that it is uncertain, on the face of the pleadings, whether Plaintiff is alleging that Serco Group was hired as a vendor or contracting party through the City of Inglewood or through the Los Angeles.  California Government Code section 815.4 governs governmental liability for tortious acts committed by independent contractors.  If Plaintiff is alleging that Serco Group was contracted with one or the other city named as a defendant here, and that Marylani Olive Togiola worked for Serco Group on a employment with the City, than Plaintiff will need to allege a different governmental code violation. Nonetheless, this Court’s confusion is an indication that the FAC is not pled with the required particularity needed to allege tort violations against a governmental entity. As such, this Court SUSTAINS demurrer and requests oral argument clarification from Plaintiff on whether Plaintiff believes she will be able to sufficiently allege causes of action against Defendant City or a different municipal entity in a second amended pleading if leave to amend were granted. Defendant, City of Inglewood is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling.