  Case Number:  22TRCV00900    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    April 26, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00900
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Puente
Hills Financing, LLC v. Repossession Empire, Inc., et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Cross-Defendant,
Kara Imbriani
                                                (2)
Defendants, Lloyd Joseph Collins, Repossession
Empire, Inc. dba Legion
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1)
Cross-Complainants, Lloyd Joseph Collins, Repossession Empire, Inc. dba Legion
                                                (2)
Puente Hills Financing, LLC
 
TRIAL DATE:                           Not
Set.  But there is a May 13, 2024 trial
date in a somewhat related case pending before Judge Lu in the Stanley Mosk
courthouse among largely the same parties, case no. 19STCV41528
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Cross-Defendant,
Kara Imbriani’s Demurrer 
                                                (2)
Cross-Defendant,
Kara Imbriani’s Motion to Strike 
                                                (3)
Defendants, Lloyd Joseph Collins, Repossession
Empire, Inc. dba Legion Demurrer
                                                (4)
Defendants, Lloyd Joseph Collins, Repossession
Empire, Inc. dba Legion Motion to Strike
                                                (5)
Case Management Conference
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) Imbriani’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend
                                                (2)
Imbriani’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED 
                                                (3)
Collins’ and Repossession Empire’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
                                                (4)
Collins’ and Repossession Empire’s Motion to Strike is MOOTED
                                                (5)
CMC: the Court intends to set this case for trial in August or September of
2025
 
                                                 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On October 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint
in this case. On March 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants, Repossession Empire, Inc. dba Legion and Lloyd
Joseph Collins (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 10. On June 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). On September 7, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Fraud; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Common Count; (4) Conversion; (5)
Declaratory Relief.  Lloyd Joseph Collins
and Repossession Empire, Inc., dba Legion now file a Demurrer and Motion to
Strike portions of the 4AC. 
 
Additionally, on February 28, 2023,
Cross-Complainants, Repossession Empire and Mr. Collins filed a Cross-Complaint
against Puente Hills Financing, LLC, Puente Hills Hyundai, LLC, Sam Lim, Newton
Lim, Kara Imbriani, and DOES 1 through 10. On September 5, 2023,
Cross-Complainants, Lloyd Joseph Collins and Repossession Empire, Inc. dba
Legion filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”). On February 22, 2024,
Cross-Complainants filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SAXC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Breach of written contract; (2) Tortious breach of
covenant of good faith and fair dealing and denial of the existence of a
contract; (3) Fraud; (4) Common Count: Open Book Account; (5) Common Count:
Goods and Services rendered; (6) Restitution based upon unjust enrichment; and
(7) Declaratory relief. Cross-Defendant, Kara Imbriani now files a Demurrer and
Motion to Strike the SAXC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
December 20, 2023, this Court preciously ruled on Demurrer and Motion to Strike
to the FAXC filed by Imbriani and sustained in part and overruled in part that
demurrer as well as granting the motion to strike. Further, on that same date,
this Court sustained Repossession Empire Inc., dba Legion’s Demurrer and granted
its Motion to Strike the TAC.  The Court
granted 60 days’ leave to amend, considering the then-pending January 2024
trial in Case No. 19STCV41528.  The trial in that
matter was continued to May 13, 2024 and as to that matter, the parties have
submitted a joint proposed special verdict with 50 questions for the jury to
answer, several of which implicate fraud findings, agency findings, and
defenses to the same.
 
On
March 28, 2024, Imbriani filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike the SAXC. On April
2, 2024, Cross-Complainants Lloyd Joseph Collins and Repossession Empire, Inc.
dba Legion filed an opposition brief. On April 12, 2024, Imbriani filed reply
papers. 
 
            Additionally, on March 18, 2024,
Collins and Repossession Empire filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Plaintiff’s TAC. On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs. On April
16, 2024, Mr. Collins and Repossession Empire filed reply briefs. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.   
Imbriani’s
Demurrer
 
Legal Standard
 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label
the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell
what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
 
Discussion
            Imbriani’s
demurs to the Cross-Complaint on the grounds that she argues the Third, Fourth,
and Fifth causes of action fail to allege sufficient facts to state causes of
action. 
            Imbriani
notes, and the Court confirms, that the only new allegations in the SAXC are
set forth in paragraphs 33.5 and 33.6 which state as follows: (1) Paragraph 33.5
– “Basis for Imbriani’s indebtedness: Cross-defendant Kara
Imbriani is indebted for the storage fees because: [1] she entered into the
contract for her own benefit and interest at the expense of her employer, so as
to have access to “curbed” cars that her employer had lost track of, so as to
sell them for her own benefit; [2] she actively hid from the employer the
existence of the subject contract which she drafted and she signed; and [3] she
personally benefitted from the contract because it gave her access to cars
which she could and sometimes did surreptitiously sell [without her employer’s
knowledge] for her own personal benefit, pocketing such sales proceeds, and
only remitting a portion when her employer ultimately caught on; and (2) Paragraph
33.6 – “Sum certain: Cross-defendant Kara Imbriani, whose former employers,
cross-defendants Puente Hills Hyundai, LLC and Puente Hills Financing, LLC have
alleged that Imbriani hid the existence of the storage contract to satisfy her
own interests, is generally indebted for a sum certain of the number of cars
[41]times the daily rate [$15] times the days the cars have remained on the lot
[2,855] which equals [$1,755,825] as of February 21, 2024, and is and will be
responsible for all of that sum certain to the extent that her prior employers
fail to satisfy this indebtedness.” (SAXC, ¶¶ 33.5, 33.6.)
Fraud
 
In the interest of brevity, and because this
Court previously ruled on a Demurrer to the previous FAXC which was only
different as it did not include the above two paragraphs, this Court does not regurgitate
the elements required for a cause of action for fraud. However, this Court did
note in its December 20, 2023 minute order, that the previous fraud allegations
failed to allege cross-complainant’s reliance was justifiable. This Court also
noted that the FAXC was devoid of any allegation that the concealment occurred
over a consistent period of time, how Imbriani continued to conceal material
facts from Cross-Complainant, etc. On these basis, this Court SUSTAINED the
previous demurrer to this cause of action. 
 
As noted by Imbriani and this Court, the
only difference between the FAXC and the SAXC is paragraphs 33.5 and 33.6.
Neither of these paragraphs cure, or even attempt to cure the deficiencies
identified in the previous pleading. 
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants argue that
a managing agent who enters into a contract expressly on behalf of the
principal, but, because she herself intends to illicitly profit from the
contract, hides that contract from the principal, and in turn, hides her
tortious intent from the counter-party, has fraudulently omitted to disclose a
material fact to the counter-party. Cross-Complainants rely on Millsap v.
National Funding Corp. of Claif. (1943) 57 Cal.App.2d 772, a case that has
since been called into doubt by the Third District Court of Appeals in  Hillsman v. Sutter Community Hospitals
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 743. This Court notes that  Millsap is inherently distinguishable
from the case at bar. In Millsap, involved a wrongful termination claim in
which a prospective employee clearly stated to his prospective employer, that
he would not give up his present employment unless the prospective employer
would agree to give him permanent employment and the prospective employer
expressly agreed to those terms. The Court noted that it seemed clear that in
that case, the prospective employee is giving up his present employment
suffered a prejudice as an inducement to the promisor for his promise of
permanent employment. The employment case involved the endorsement of checks,
all of which were endorsed with the belief that the Plaintiff had to endorse
them or she would be discharged. The Millsap Court noted that Defendant
there did not dispute the fact that the evidence was sufficient to support a
finding of transfer of the checks by Plaintiff under duress, or what is called
in some cases “illegal business compulsion.” (Millsap, supra 57
Cal.App.2d at 780.) The Court noted the evidence was sufficient to also support
a finding that defendant received the checks from plaintiff as agent for the
employees association. The Court noted, in this context (not seemingly
applicable to the case at bar), that: “Where money is paid to one whose agency
is known, and by him paid over to his principal, the agent will be personally
liable therefor where the payment is induced by his fraud, mistake, or wrongful
act.” (Id. at 781.) 
 
The Court believes Millsap does not relieve
a party from alleging all causes of action for fraud. Cross-Complainants also
argue that their fraud cause of action falls under one of the four discrete
circumstances for which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud. However, again, this Court previously did not find those four
circumstances present in the last pleading. Because Cross-Complainants have
only amended their pleading with two paragraphs, both of which do not cure the
defects in the last fraud cause of action, the Court SUSTAINS demurrer. 
 
Cross-Complainants will be asked how or
whether they would be able to amend a further amended cross-complaint. If they
are unable to convince this Court that they would be able to, this Court
SUSTAINS without leave to amend. The Court’s inclination is to have the cross-complaint
proceed forward without the fraud claim, but if discovery reveals a basis for
seeking leave to add back in a fraud claim, the Court would be willing to
consider such additional discovered facts.
 
Common Count: Open Book Account; Common
Count: Goods and Services rendered;
            Again, in the
interest of brevity, the Court does not discuss the law of the required
elements for this cause of action. Instead, it analyzes whether the two
additional paragraphs cure the defects this Court previously found in this
cause of action. In this Court’s December 20, 2023 minute order, it noted that the
FAXC failed to state any indebtedness of a certain sum, and that
Cross-Complainants may not merely allege that Imbriani is generally indebted
without any basis of such claim and without any basis for the allegedly
indebted party for a sum certain.
            The new
allegations assert that Imbriani is indebted for the storage fees because: (1)
she entered into the contract for her own benefit and interest at the expense
of her employer; (2) she actively hid from the employer the existence of the
subject contract which she drafted and signed; and (3) she personally
benefitted from the contract because it gave her access to cars which she could
and sometimes did sell for her own personal benefit. (SAXC, ¶ 33.5.) Further,
Cross-Complainants allege that Imbriani is generally indebted for a sum certain
of the number of cars (41) times the daily rate ($15) times the days the cars
have remained on the lot (2,855) which totals $1,755,825 as of February 21,
2024, and is and will be responsible for all of that sum certain. (SAXC, ¶
33.6.) 
            In Imbriani’s
demurrer, she argues that although these additional allegations speak to the
Court’s concerns, they still fail as the elements are not entirely directed to
any dealings between Imbriani and Cross-Complainants. Here, this Court notes
that the element required for common counts of “consideration” is clearly
missing as the contract here is not between Imbriani and Cross-Complainants. None
of the moving or responding papers speak to the element of consideration and
whether such an element can be waived in this case, or met in a different way.
As such, this Court’s tentative inclination is to SUSTAIN this cause of action
as the element of consideration is still not met, and the issue of nonpayment
of something that was not contracted for is still at issue. However, the Court
is willing to hear oral argument. 
B.   
Imbriani’s
Motion to Strike 
Legal Standard 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.¿ (Id., § 436(b).)¿ The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id.,
§ 437.)¿ “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of
cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)¿          ¿ 

 
Discussion 
 
            Here, because this Court has SUSTAINED demurrer, and the motion
to strike is based on the same arguments, the Motion to Strike is Mooted.  
 
 
 
 
C.   
Lloyd
Joseph Collins and Repossession Empire, Inc. dba Legion’s Demurrer 
 
Mr. Collins and
Repossession Empire have demurred to the 4AC on the grounds they argue the
first and second causes of action fail to state sufficient facts to state
causes of action against them and are barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
Fraud

 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged
fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud,
as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To
properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the
names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
This Court notes that in its previous ruling
on the demurrer to the SAC, it found that it was confused and found the fraud
cause of action to be vague in several respects: (1)  as it did not clearly allege that when
Imbriani allegedly entered into the oral repossession agreement, whether she
did so on her own behalf, on behalf of Plaintiff, and whether it was or was not
disclosed as to whether she was purporting to act on behalf of her employer.
Paragraph 28 alleged that the contract was entered into with Plaintiff “through
Imbriani,” but the Court found that the allegation required clarification – especially
for purposes of the specificity requirements for alleging fraud; and (2) the
Court noted that the alleged written contract Plaintiff allegedly became aware
of in 2021, the SAC did not allege whether Imbriani entered into that written
contract on her own behalf, on behalf of Plaintiff, or on behalf of her employer
at the time of her pre-Puente Hills employment. 
 
In their 4AC’s fraud cause of action,
Defendants have provided portions of this Court’s previous ruling. There, this
Court noted that if Plaintiff were unaware of the written agreement, then a
misrepresentation to Plaintiff could not have taken place as Plaintiff continued
to – at the same time – assert that Imbriani was being coerced to sign the
agreement she knew was detrimental to Plaintiff. This Court noted that these
factual inconsistencies could not, at the same time, be true. This Court further
noted that it was uncertain how the misrepresentation was made to the Plaintiff
“by and through Imbriani” to continue to repossess. This Court reasoned that it
did not believe, at that time (but nonetheless, gave Plaintiff another bite at
the apple), that Plaintiff could maintain a cause of action for fraud against
Imbriani, purportedly acting on Defendants’ behalf, knew about the alleged
fraud and continued to engage in the activity. This Court further explained
that if Imbriani relayed fraudulent information to Plaintiff, then the
misrepresentation would come from Imbriani herself, and not per se from
Defendants. Furter, this Court previously noted that the allegation of the
timing of the oral contract was inadequate and camouflaged as a possible
statute of limitations issue. 
 
Now, in the 4AC, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants, instead of making misrepresentations directly to Imbriani, made
direct misrepresentation to Lolita Mendoza in 2012. This Court notes, as did
Defendants that this time period is still well before the written storage
agreement in 2016. Again, this does not resolve the issues plaguing this
attempted cause of action for fraud where the subsequent written contract
entered into on behalf of Plaintiff by its agent fails to constitute
misrepresentation. 
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the fraud
claim without leave to amend, unless at oral argument counsel can represent
what additional facts can be alleged to overcome the Court’s concerns.  As noted above with respect to the cross-complaint,
the Court’s inclination is to have the 4AC proceed forward without a fraud
cause of action, but if discovery reveals a basis for seeking leave to add back
in a fraud claim, the Court would be willing to consider such additional
discovered facts.
 
                                                                                 
Breach
of Oral Contract 
 
Defendants once again demur to the cause of
action for Breach of Oral Contract. To state a cause of action for breach of
oral contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty,
LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is
based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman &
Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may
also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.”
(Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
On December 20, 2022, this Court sustained
demurrer as to this cause of action on the grounds it noted that Plaintiff, in the
TAC, has conceded that Imbriani entered into an oral agreement on behalf of
Plaintiff, and Defendants argued that assuming there was such an oral contract,
it was on the self-serving terms plaintiff alleges under information and
belief, Defendants argue that the question Plaintiff has still inadequately
addresses why the storage contract is not, itself, a very clear notice of a
breach. Defendants’ argument rests on the fact that Plaintiff became aware of
the contract in 2016, through Imbriani, as she was the highest ranking
individual working for Plaintiff. 
 
Defendants argue that nothing in the 4AC
adequately addresses any portion of the Court’s concerns in its previous
orders. Defendants contend that Imbriani – whom Plaintiff concedes was the
finance director (4AC, ¶ 17), and who entered into a written storage contract
with defendant Repossession Empire, Inc., on PHF letterhead, and expressly
signed it as PHF’s Finance Director, in April 2016, and who had agency
regarding PHF as its finance director – would have been put on notice that
defendants intended to enforce a storage contract and, therefore, so was PHF in
April 2016. The Court agrees, and is still having pause about each of its
original questions in its prior rulings as to this issue.  The Court thus SUSTAINS the demurrer to the
oral contract claim without leave to amend, unless at oral argument counsel can
represent what additional facts can be alleged to overcome the Court’s
concerns.
 
 
D.   
Lloyd Joseph Collins and Repossession Empire,
Inc. dba Legion’s Motion to Strike
 
Legal Standard 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.¿ (Id., § 436(b).)¿ The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id.,
§ 437.)¿ “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of
cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)¿          ¿ 

 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s alter ego allegations
are still insufficiently pled and should be stricken. Because this Court has sustained
demurrer as to the causes of action here, this Court notes that the Motion to
Strike is mooted. 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Cross-Defendant Imbriani’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. The
Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of above. 
 
Further, Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. The Motion to Strike is MOOTED. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 