 Case Number:  22TRCV01531    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 April 26, 2024 CASE  NUMBER:                  22TRCV01531 CASE NAME:                        Los Angeles Apparel, Inc. v.  Domestic Medical Supply Coalition LLC, et al.     MOVING PARTY:                Defendant/Cross-Complainant,  Domestic Medical Supply Coalition, LLC   RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,  Los Angeles Apparel, Inc.    TRIAL DATE:                        February  10, 2025   MOTION:                              (1) Motion for Leave to File  Cross-Complaint     Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED                                                      I. BACKGROUND    A.    Factual   On  December 20, 2022, Plaintiff, Los Angeles Apparel, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a  Complaint against Defendant, Domestic Medical Supply Coalition LLC and DOES 1  through 50. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for: (1) Breach of  Contract; (2) Common Counts. The Complaint is based on allegations that  Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a written purchase order requests and  invoices, whereby Defendant would purchase gowns and masks made by Plaintiff  during the COVID-19 pandemic. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant executed a  Credit Application with Plaintiff, dated April 2, 2020, which contained certain  terms and conditions related to Defendant’s purchase of goods from Plaintiff.  However, Plaintiff contends that due to the volume of Defendant’s orders, Plaintiff  was required to purchase a special machine (“TukaTech Machine”) to assist with  the manufacturing process.    Plaintiff  also asserts, in opposition, that because the TukaTech Machine was purchased  specifically to fulfill Defendant’s orders, the parties agreed Defendant would  provide a $250,000 deposit to cover the estimated cost of the TukaTech machine.  Plaintiff asserts that the deposit was made in exchange for the purchase and  installation of the TukaTech cutting machine, and any excess remaining deposit  beyond the cost of the machine and the related installation costs was applied  against future non-sewn mask orders at a rate of $0.10 per piece. The Complaint  alleges that on October 7, 2020, Plaintiff’s principal contacted Defendant by  email, stating that Defendant had a large past due balance of $636,216.63 owing  to Plaintiff, which did not include amounts related to fabric purchased to  support Defendant’s orders. Plaintiff contends that Defendant responded to the  email the same day conceding that money was owed to Plaintiff, but claimed that  the amount was $214,000. However, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant failed to  make payments to reduce the debt, which is why Plaintiff filed the Complaint on  December 20, 2022.                Now, Defendant/Cross-Complainant,  Domestic Medical Supply Coalition, LLC (“DMS”) files a Motion for Leave to file  Cross-Complaint.    B. Procedural    On March 28, 2024, DMS filed  a Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint. On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff, Los  Angeles Apparel, Inc. (“LAA”) filed an opposition brief. On April 19, 2024, DMS  filed a reply brief.     II. ANALYSIS   A.     Legal Standard    Code of Civil Procedure Section 428.10 provides  that a party against whom a cause of action has been asserted may file a  cross-complaint setting forth: “(b) Any cause of action he has against a person  alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to  the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises  out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or  occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or  interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause  brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (b).)  A  party shall obtain leave of court to file a cross-complaint if it is not  concurrently filed with the answer or at any time before the court sets a trial  date.  Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during  the course of the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (c).)    B.      Discussion   Here,  DMS seeks leave to file a cross-complaint containing causes of action for: (1)  Fraud and Misrepresentation; (2) Breach of Contract; (3) Money Had &  Received; (4) Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200; and (5)  Accounting. DMS argues that its cross-complaint is based on the allegations  that as part of discovery in this case, Defendant requested information about  the actual purchase price of the machine, and when it subpoenaed business  records directly from TukaTech, the records indicated the actual cost of the  machine was approximately $180,000, thus making LAA profit approximately  $70,000 from the purchase and sale of the Machine. DMS also notes it is seeking  an accounting of the income generated by LAA’s use of DMS’s machine, and to  establish the credit mounts due to DMS from LAA for: (1) defective isolation  gowns rejected by DMS; (2) defective isolation gowns manufactured by LAA for  DMS and rejected by DMS’s customers due to manufacturing defects; and (3)  credit due to DMS from LAA for isolation gowns manufactured and sold by LAA,  made with material charged to DMS and cut with DMS’s machine.    By  filing this motion, DMS notes that it seeks to file a compulsory  cross-complaint against LAA for fraud and misrepresentation in connection with  the Machine and also to assert a cause of action against LAA for breach of  contract for the failure to deliver isolation garments that were free of manufacturing  defects. DMS further notes it wishes to assert claims that fabric ordered by  DMS was charged to DMS but not delivered to DMS, and the proceeds of the sale  of that fabric by LAA to third parties was never properly credited to DMS.    Whether DMS Unreasonably Delayed  Filing The Cross-Complaint               In  opposition, Plaintiff contends that DMS unreasonably delayed the filing of the  cross-complaint, noting that this case was filed on December 20, 2022, DMS’s  answer was filed on August 3, 2023, and now, months later, on March 28, 2024,  DMS is filing this motion. However, DMS contends that the catalyst in filing  this cross-complaint was information they received from TukaTech, the  manufacturer of the machine in question, after they had subpoenaed business  records from them. Although DMS sent a letter to counsel for Plaintiff on  January 19, 2024, the moving or reply papers do not indicate when DMS  subpoenaed these records, or when the records were received. This information  would be necessary for this Court to determine whether Defendant has unreasonably  delayed the filing of this motion. As such, the Court requests this information  at the hearing.    Same Transaction or Occurrence                Next, Plaintiff LAA argues that DMS’s proposed first, third, and  fourth causes of action do not arise from the same transaction nor involves the  same facts. LAA argues its complaint involves agreements between Defendant and  Plaintiff, whereby DMS purchased gowns and masks manufactured by Plaintiff;  that DMS only made a few payments, and then cancelled its orders in the middle  of the manufacturing process, leaving Plaintiff with fabric acquired  specifically for Defendant’s orders, and causing Plaintiff significant loss. Plaintiff  argues that Defendant’s proposed cross-complaint is related to a different  alleged agreement that Defendant would provide a deposit for LAA to acquire the  TukaTech machine and Defendant would earn its deposit back to receive discounts  on future orders. Further, DMS’s proposed cross-complaint also seeks entirely  separate relief for “income generated from the use of the machine” and a  “percentage of such profits.” Plaintiff, LAA, contends that this is an entirely  new scope of inquiry, and is not properly asserted in the scope of a  cross-complaint.               As to the causes of action relating to the TukaTech machine as it  relates to money allegedly owed to Plaintiff, the Court finds that much of the proposed  causes of action are based on the same transaction or occurrence. Plaintiff is  seeking money it claims is due from DMS, however, just as asserted by  Plaintiff, whatever remained from the $250,000 was to be used toward materials bought  by DMS from Plaintiff at $0.10. Thus, litigating DMS’s cross-complaint against  Plaintiff involving fraud and misrepresentation claims, money had and received,  and violation of Business and Professions Code claims speaks to the amount owed  based on the actual purchase price, including fees associated with the purchase  of the machine, and how much of the amount owed should have been put toward  credit for the items DMS typically purchased from Plaintiff.                This would also speak to the accounting wanting to be done by DMS as  DMS is not seeking profit from the used materials, but such an accounting would  determine, in basic contract principles, how much of what DMS allegedly owed to  Plaintiff was able to be repurchased by a different company.    Breach of Contract and Statute of  Limitations               Next, Plaintiff’s opposition argues that DMS’s breach of contract  cause of action fails because any alleged breach of an oral contract would have  had to be brought within two years of the violation. However, Plaintiff notes  that this cause of action is being proposed to be brought four (4) years after  the alleged breach. In DMS’s reply brief, it argues that this cause of action  relates back to the filing of the complaint. “As a general rule, the filing of  a complaint tolls the statute of limitations applicable to a cross-complaint so  long as the cross-complaint is related to the original complaint and its causes  of action were not barred when the original complaint was filed.”  (California-American  Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 748, 763.)   “Such a cross-complaint need only be subject-matter related to the plaintiff's  complaint—i.e. arise out of the same occurrence (See §§ 426.10, 428.10)—to  relate back to the date of filing the complaint for statute of limitation  purposes.”  (Sidney v. Superior Court (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 710,  714.)                  This Court notes that Plaintiff’s original filing of the Complaint  is based on allegations involving money owed to Plaintiff by DMS. As such, an  alleged oral contract whereby Plaintiff and DMS allegedly orally and in  writing, agreed that the machine would be used for cutting fabric for  cross-complainant’s product, and when the machine was not in use for DMS’s purposes,  the machine would be used to cut fabric for third parties in which a portion of  the income generated by that use of the machine would be paid to  cross-complainants may loosely relate in the subject matter of Plaintiff’s  complaint. Both allegations speak to and essentially determine what is owed to  Plaintiff by DMS, and if that money would be offset by money allegedly owed to  DMS by Plaintiff.                Subject to change during clarification during oral argument, this  Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the Motion and allow DMS to file the  cross-complaint.  The Court’s ruling  would be without prejudice to a demurrer or dispositive motion by Plaintiff  asserting that one or more causes of action can be adjudicated as a matter of  law, i.e., the Court is not making a final determination that the statute of limitations  is or is not a bar to an oral contract claim in the Cross-Complaint.     III.  CONCLUSION   Based on the foregoing, DMS’s Motion for Leave to File  Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.  Domestic  Medical Supply shall file its Cross-Complaint as a stand-alone document, not as  an exhibit or attachment to any other document, within 5 days of this  ruling.     Moving party to give notice.   