 Case Number:  23TRCV00445    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 April 26, 2024CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00445CASE NAME:                        Gabriella Morgan v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al. MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Gabriella MorganRESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc. TRIAL DATE:                        May 5, 2025MOTION:                             (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One                                                (2) Request for Sanctions Tentative Rulings:                   (1) CONTINUED to May 24, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. The parties are ordered to meet and confer pursuant to the guidelines provided by this Court below, and Plaintiff is ordered to file a 2nd Amended Separate Statement after the completion of the Court-ordered further meet and confer, consistent with the even more detailed direction given by the Court in this Tentative Ruling.                                                (2) CONTINUED and will be determined at the next hearing. I. BACKGROUNDA. Factual On February 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Gabriella Morgan (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. Per the moving papers, on October 17, 2023, Plaintiff propounded her first set of discovery requests, including Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), to investigate and develop the case. On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff notes that Defendant served its responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests, but asserts that many of Defendant’s responses failed to either agree to produce the documents, agreed to produce certain document and failed to do so, or failed to properly object in a manner required by the Code of Civil Procedure. The motion further states that on January 8, 2024, Plaintiff initiated a meet and confer letter to Defendant specifying the claimed deficiencies in Defendant’s responses and requesting they be corrected.  Plaintiff requested an unreasonably short response deadline of January 12, 2024, which was followed by a second meet and confer deadline only one court day later (January 12 was a Friday and the following Monday was a court holiday), by January 16, 2024. Nonetheless, Plaintiff claims that Defendant “ignored” all attempts at meeting and conferring to resolve.  B. Procedural             On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. On March 1, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.             This motion was originally set for March 13, 2024, however, the separate statement was unreasonably long and not code-compliant. As such, this Court continued the motion and ordered the parties to meet and confer. This Court also ordered moving party to file an updated separate statement.  On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended separate statement and status report noting the discovery issues that remain include RFP Nos. 24-30, 31-38, 44, and 46-47.   The shortcomings of the April 19 submissions are noted below. II. MEET AND CONFER             Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a motion to compel a part deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to resolve informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i), [failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)             Here, the Court notes the parties have somewhat met and conferred (after the filing of the motion, not before) and have filed a joint status report noting that the issues which remain include RFPs 24-30, 31-38, 44, and 46-47.  The Court will require the parties to work harder on a more substantive meet and confer and the Court has given much more detailed guidance as to how it will likely rule at the continued hearing on this motion, with the goal or narrowing the issues remaining in dispute.  III. ANALYSIS  A.    Legal Standard“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ "The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)B.     Discussion Here, this Court notes that Plaintiff has failed to follow the instructions in this Court’s previous minute orders. This Court previously noted that the purpose of a Separate Statement in a discovery motion is to make it easier for the Court to rule on the discovery requested, but the April 19 document did not fully satisfy the Court’s stated needs so the parties will be ordered to try again. Plaintiff’s amended separate statement failed to follow this Court’s instruction to include ONLY the definitions plus the verbatim requests at issue and the verbatim written responses to each requests at issue. This Court further instructed that if a supplemental response was given, the revised Separate Statement must include that as well immediately following the initial verbatim language of the original written response.  The Court will hear argument form AHM as to whether it provided any amended or further or supplemental response to any of the RFPs at issue. The amended Separate Statement filed by Plaintiff on April 19, 2024 did not comply with the Court’s directions.  It still contains over 60% argument (“reasons why a further response should be compelled”) and is only thirteen (13) pages shorter than the originally filed 107-page separate statement this Court indicated it would not read.   The Court has nonetheless reviewed the 97-page amended separate statement.  It needs to be amended again.  For purposes of the 2nd Amended Separate Statement to be provided to the Court, the Court expressly relieves Plaintiff from the obligation to treat each discovery request at issue as if it were a stand-alone disputed issue for purposes of complying with the Code’s Separate Statement requirement.   The Court does not need a repetitive recitation of any, much less each, of the Plaintiff’s arguments as to each and every discovery request at issue.  The Court also wonders why a “transmission” issue was argued in the April 19, 2024 Amended Separate Statement (i.e., is a transmission malfunction associated with the clamed “sensing defect”?), and did not need argument regarding relevancy to the fraudulent inducement cause of action as to RFPs 24, 25, 26, 27, and 28 which seek only documents bearing on Honda’s warranty costs, repurchase data, offers of service contracts, and goals for reducing the same.  The April 19, 2024 Amended Separate Statement did not contain a definition of “Honda Sensing Defect” which makes it difficult for the Court to rule on AHM’s objection to the definition of that specially defined term contained in RFP categories No. 29-31 and 33-36.  As such, Plaintiff will be asked whether she can file a separate statement that lists only all the definitions, the requests remaining at issue, the original and amended response to the requests at issue, and no argument whatsoever.  If Plaintiff is capable of following the Court’s instructions, no later than May 17, 2024, Plaintiff shall file a 2nd amended separate statement as to discovery requests remaining at issue after the next round of meet-and-confer efforts by counsel.             The hearing on Plaintiff’s Requests for Sanctions will also be continued. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------             For purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for their further meet and confer and issue-narrowing process being ordered by the Court, the Court sets forth below even more detailed parameters for what it will ultimately order with respect to the discovery requests embraced by this motion in this Lemon Law case with fraudulent concealment allegations:  1.      Limiting the relevant time period of a document category requested to the year during which the Plaintiff’s pre-litigation demand for repurchase was pending or the year in which Plaintiff contends that the presentation for repair reached the threshold for Honda to be required on its own to have determined a buy-back was required.  In this case, Plaintiff’s RFPs all ask for the time period of 2020 through the present, which is overly broad. 2.      Limiting the scope of requests for overall buyback and warranty or buyback cost data and statistics to those relating to the nature of the Plaintiff’s alleged nonconformity, i.e., in this case a sensing defect, not buybacks or warranty costs or similar statistics for engines, Infotainment systems, steering system issues, exhaust systems, etc. 3.      Limiting the scope of the exceedingly broad definition of “Documents” to limit the obvious burden of requiring AHM to ask each of its employees to search their email accounts for internal emails that might contain the word “sensing” or “collision mitigation,” etc.  The Court generally orders the responding party to identify and produce internal reports, not internal emails, and to identify and produce external emails such as those to or from the Plaintiff, plaintiff’s counsel, and the NHTSA. 4.      Denying a compelled further response to a discovery request that requires the responding party to review the subject vehicle’s repair history and respond to document demands that broadly relate to any complaint raised in the Plaintiff’s repair history.  RFPs 32 and 44 are examples of such problematic discovery requests.5.      Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.6.      Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle must be produced, including the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates of activity by dealer personnel.7.      Communications between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing dealers, and communications between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.8.      Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle.9.      A letter or other approval from the Department of Consumer Affairs evidencing certification of the Defendant’s qualified third-party dispute resolution process, i.e., Lemon Arbitration Program compliant with Civil Code section 1793.22(d).10.  The applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the year the lawsuit was filed.  If a separate written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or buy backs appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also be required to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section 1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22).  Such documents would be produced subject to a protective order.11.  Any internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and vague characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the litigation.  For example, if the customer experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse, or a harsh engagement or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from 2nd to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other generalized nature of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be produced.  Here, even though the April 19, 2024 Amended Separate Statement lacks the definition of “Honda Sensing Defect,” the Court’s direction for further meet-and-confer efforts and eventual ruling will be based on the specific repair complaints with the Collision Mitigation Braking System that Plaintiff herself experienced and reported to a AHM-authorized service and repair facility. 12.  Other customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject Model year 2020 Insight EX vehicle.  The other customer complaints again would be limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on the dealer repair records.  The Court typically discusses with counsel the type of documents that may be required and the format for a production of documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of much more voluminous documents.  The spreadsheet typically would contain the repair date, the VIN last 6 of the other customers’ vehicle, the servicing dealer by name, location and/or dealer code, a description of the customer’s complaint as listed in the warranty claim submission, the determined cause if any of that complaint or whether no problem or cause was found, and the correction, repair, or replacement performed if any.a.       The Court intends to narrow the scope of permissible discovery of other MY 2020 Insight EX vehicles’ customer complaints as noted above.  Thus, the volume of customer repair files to be reviewed will be only the MY 2020 Insight EXes sold or leased in California, a much smaller and less burdensome amount than the national total of all MY 2020 Insight EX vehicles distributed in the United States.  Further, the parties shall discuss search terms for key words to be used in a program for AHM to run on its digitally stored records in AHM’s customer care center records and in its warranty reimbursement system records.  If AHM does not have its records stored in a database or other digitally searchable system, that will be a point to advise the Court after the conclusion of the meet and confer process.  The Court will NOT order AHM to identify the other customers by name, address, telephone number or any other PII.  Any such compilation will be subject to a Discovery Protective Order in this case, and the custodian or other person who generates the compilation may need to be identified if the parties cannot stipulate to the use and admissibility of the chart.b.      The Court will not order production of ESI as to other California customers’ complaints of repair issues that occurred on a single occasion in the plaintiff’s repair history.  Merely because the Plaintiff experienced a repair issue does not make discovery of every other California customer’s records for that repair issue reasonable when considering the needs of the litigation, the importance of that issue to the issues disputed in this litigation, the amount in controversy, and the costs of providing the broader scope of discovery sought by Plaintiff. 13.  Technical Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle, beginning with those mentioned in the repair history of the subject 2020 Honda Insight EX.   IV. CONCLUSION             For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is CONTINUED.  The hearing is continued to May 24, 2024.             Unless waived, counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.