 Case Number:  24VECV00398    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  W GALEN DAY v.
COLLINS MANOR APARTMENTS, LP, et al.
 
motion to
strike portions of plaintiff’s complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        July
16, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None
set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV00398
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Collins Manor Apartments LP, Alphaeus, LLC, Winterfell Investments, Inc. and
Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Galen Dy  
Meet and Confer:      Attempted.[1]
(Farkhondeh Decl. ¶3, Exh. A.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability case. On January
30, 2024, Plaintiff Galen Day filed a complaint against Defendants Collins
Manor Apartments, LP, Alphaeus, LLC, Winterfell Investments, Inc., and
Coastline Real Estate Advisors, Inc. for 1. Negligence; 2. Tortious Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability; 3. Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability; 4.
Private Nuisance; 5. Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 6. Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 7. Violation of the UCL; and 8. Premises Liability:
Slip and Fall. Plaintiff alleges during their tenancy at 18449 Collins St., Apt
68, Tarzana, CA 91356, their unit was unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, and
uninhabitable and subject to the following substandard conditions: mold, water
leaks, cockroaches, and common areas in disrepair. Plaintiff also alleges there
was a flood in his apartment, which caused him to slip and fall. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants
Collins Manor Apartments LP,
Alphaeus, LLC, Winterfell Investments, Inc. and Coastline Real Estate Advisors,
Inc.’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Collins Manor Apartments,
LP, Alphaeus, LLC, Winterfell Investments, Inc., and Coastline Real Estate
Advisors, Inc. move this court for an order striking portions of Plaintiff’s
complaint supporting Plaintiff’s allegations for punitive damages. Defendants
make the motion on the grounds the allegations are not based on ultimate facts,
are conclusory, and the complaint fails to plead specific facts sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages.
 
The court
may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
California
Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in
non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id. §
3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ.
Code § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to defendant with the intention on the
part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s conclusory punitive damages claims fail to allege facts
sufficient to support the claim. Specifically, Defendants contend Plaintiff
does not allege, nor can he allege, that Defendants intended to injure him. Rather,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to take timely or reasonable steps to
abate and/or remedy the defects, failed to spend sufficient monies on repairs,
maintenance and pest control, failed to properly operate and manage the
property, failed or delayed making adequate repairs, failed to identify, abate,
and repair in an effective manner, and failed to repair and maintain the
apartments they own and control. Defendants maintain these amount to no more
than a level of negligence. Defendants further contend Plaintiff has not named
any partners, officers, directors, or managing agent of Defendants who engaged
in malice, fraud or oppression, nor are there any facts demonstrating advance
knowledge of the unfitness of an employee of Defendants, with authorization or
ratification by a managing agent. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues their claim for punitive damages is sufficient.
Specifically, Paragraphs 28 and 30 of the Complaint provide a detailed
description of the numerous life, health and safety defects in their apartment,
including water leakage, mold growth, and cockroach infestations. Moreover,
Plaintiff alleges in Paragraphs 31, 32, 49, 83 and 85 of the Complaint that Defendants
intentionally chose not to properly abate these severe infestations because
they wanted to discourage and upset Plaintiff and cause Plaintiff emotional
distress, to subjugate Plaintiff and render Plaintiff less likely or able to
assert his property rights despite Defendants’ knowledge of the injuries
Plaintiff was suffering. The Complaint also alleges Defendants were aware of
their failure to provide a safe and habitable dwelling but made the decision to
subject Plaintiff to deplorable conditions for the sole purpose of increasing
Defendants’ monetary gain. As for authorization and ratification, Plaintiff
argues the complaint sufficiently alleges Defendants authorized and ratified
the tortious conducts and the Plaintiff repeatedly informed Defendants and/or
their agents and/or their employees of the defects. (Compl. ¶8, 20, 31, 32, and
50.) 
 
The court
finds Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged malice or oppression by Defendants. Under
California law, a landlord’s failure to repair can support a claim for punitive
damages.  (Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920.)
In Stoiber, the Court found that the tenant had pled sufficient facts to
support her prayer for exemplary damages because she alleged that the landlord
had actual knowledge of defective conditions in the premises, including leaking
sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows,
and other unsafe and dangerous conditions, and that the landlord failed to
repair them. Plaintiff has alleged similar unsafe and dangerous
conditions, Defendants’ knowledge and their intentional failure to repair them.

 
Plaintiff has
also sufficiently alleged ratification or authorization by an officer,
director, or managing agent. (Complaint, para. 32.)  
 
Accordingly,
the motion to strike is Denied.  30 days
to answer.  
 


