  Case Number:  24VECV00017    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  W Angel Barrett v. LAUSD 
 
defendant LAUSD’s Demurrer to plaintiff’s
complaint  
 
Date of Hearing:        July
16, 2024                                                  Trial Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV00017
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
LAUSD
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Angel Barrett
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant LAUSD for Breach of Contract, Gross Negligence in
Violation of the FEHA and Violation of the Public Records Act.   Defendant LAUSD filed this demurrer on June
14, 2024.   
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant LAUSD’s demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant LAUSD demurs to the three causes of action on the
grounds that they are barred as a matter of law.    
 
Breach of Contract Claim 
 
Defendant first demurs to the complaint on the grounds the claim
for breach of contract cannot be brought against the district by one of its
employees, as any claim must be grounded in statute.  The court agrees that public employees cannot
assert contract claims against public entities. 
(See Miller v. State of California (1977) 18 Cal.3d 808, 813; Kim
v. Regents of the University of  California
(2000) 80 Cal.Ap.4th 160; Schmier v. Trustee of California State
University (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 314.) 
Plaintiff does not address these authorities in her opposition,
indicating that she has no contrary authority.  
The court sustains the demurrer to the first cause of action without
leave to amend.   
 
Negligence under the FEHA
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for negligent
violation of the FEHA on the grounds public entities are not liable for
non-statutory tort claims, such as negligence claims.   (See Miklosy v. Regents of the University
of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899.) The court agrees that
this cause of action is not properly pleaded as a cause of action for
negligence. Rather, plaintiff should be granted leave to amend to state a
direct claim for violation of the FEHA.  
The demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with leave to
amend.   
 
Violation of the California Public Records Act
 
Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Violation of the Public
Records Act seeks monetary damages and “reversal of her demotion and full
reinstatement” based on alleged violations of the Public Records Act.  “Any person may institute proceedings for
injunctive or declarative relief or writ of mandate in any court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce his or her right to inspect or to receive a copy of any
public record or class of public records under [the CPRA].” (Marken v. Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School Dist. (2012) Cal.App.4th
1250.)  Other monetary
damages are not available, and reinstatement to a former job is not the type of
injunctive relief contemplated by the statute.  The court therefore sustains the demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action for violation of the CPRA.  Plaintiff may amend to clarify that she seeks
only to enforce her request for records and for attorney fees related to such
enforcement action. No tort damages may be pleaded.  
 
The court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend as to the
First Cause of Action and with leave to amend as to the Second and Third
Causes.  30 days leave to amend.  
 