 Case Number:  23STCV17834    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
8, 2023                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Stephanie Abundis v. Comprehensive
Surgical Solutions, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV17834

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Comprehensive Surgical Solutions, LLC and Nick Philpott
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Stephanie Abundis
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Compelling Arbitration;
2.      An
Order Dismissing or Staying the Action Pending Arbitration.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is DENIED;
2.      Motion
requesting dismissal or stay pending arbitration is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff Stephanie Abundis (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendants Comprehensive Surgical Solutions, LLC and
Nick Philpott (Defendants) with seven causes of action for: (1) Discrimination
on the Basis of Sex/Gender in Violation of FEHA; (2) Sexual Harassment in
Violation of FEHA; (3) Retaliation for Complaining of Discrimination and/or
Harassment on the Basis of Sex/Gender in Violation of FEHA; (4) Failure to
Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; (5)
Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5; (6) Wrongful Constructive Termination of
Employment in Violation of Public Policy; and (7) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress.
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff began working for
Defendant Comprehensive Surgical Solutions in October 2022 as an Executive
Assistant. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Philpott, a Co-Owner of Defendant
Comprehensive Surgical Solutions, began targeting her in January 2023. In
particular, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Philpott made inappropriate sexual
comments to Plaintiff on several occasions, kept asking her out, touched her,
and made other inappropriate comments. Plaintiff alleges she reported Defendant
Philpott’s behavior but was subsequently victim-blamed and was not kept
informed of progress pertaining to any investigation by HR. Additionally,
Plaintiff alleges that, as a result of her complaints, she was treated
differently by other employees and supervisors and that she developed extreme
anxiety because she did not know if she would continue to encounter Defendant
Philpott. Plaintiff alleges that because of this developed anxiety, she was
forced to resign on May 19, 2023.
 
On September 18, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion
to compel arbitration. On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed an
opposition. On November 1, 2023, Defendants timely filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Under California law, the trial court has authority to compel
arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such
arbitration exists and one of the parties refuses to arbitrate. 
Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement arbitrate the
controversy exists.”  The statute further sets forth four grounds upon
which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to compel
arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a pending
action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered depository
institution. 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that controversy
is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v. Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th
310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular
dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration. The
court should order them to arbitrate unless it is
clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional Peace
Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿ 
 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement
 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿  
 
1.     
Agreement Between Parties:
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear
the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its
initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) Here,
Defendants attached a copy of the Mutual Arbitration Agreement (the Agreement) with
supporting declaration of Ana Gilliam, the Controller for Defendant
Comprehensive Surgical Solutions. (Gilliam Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8, Exhibit A.) Plaintiff
electronically signed the Agreement on October 10, 2022. (Exhibit A.) Both
California and Federal law provide that electronic signatures on arbitration
agreements are valid. The California Uniform Electronic Transactions Act
(“UETA”) indicates that an electronic signature has the same legal effect as
handwritten signature. Plaintiff does not challenge her signature’s
authenticity.
 
Thus, Moving Defendants satisfied their initial burden to
compel arbitration. 
 
1.      The
Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Applicability of
Agreement to Subject Dispute
 
Defendants contend the Agreement covers the subject dispute
because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not otherwise excluded by
the Agreement. Plaintiff did not directly oppose this argument.[1]
 
The term “sexual harassment dispute” means a dispute
relating to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual harassment under
applicable Federal, Tribal, or State Law. (9 U.S.C.A. § 401(d).) “[A]t the
election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute . . . no predispute arbitration agreement . . . shall be valid or
enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or
State law and relates to the . . .
sexual harassment dispute.” (Id. at §
402(a).) (italics added.) “An issue as to whether this chapter applies with
respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal Law.” (Id. at subd. (b).) 
 
Plaintiff appears to concede that the alleged conduct supporting
the second cause of action for sexual harassment, the third and fifth causes of
action for retaliation, and the seventh cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress are proscribed by the Act. However, Plaintiff questions
whether the first cause of action for sex and gender discrimination, the fourth
cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination, and the sixth cause of
action for constructive discharge are sufficiently related to claims of sexual harassment
to be covered by the Act. A close examination of the factual allegations contained in the complaint resolves any doubt.
Clearly, the entire complaint relates to common, factual allegations, outlining
a course of conduct of sexual harassment. (SEE Complaint ¶¶7a-7kk.) While the alleged
conduct may give rise to separate causes of action, the conduct is founded on
allegations of sexual harassment as defined by the Act. To be sure, Plaintiff’s
Complaint for sexual harassment arises under violation of FEHA, which defines
harassment because of sex as including “sexual harassment” and “gender
harassment” that “need not be motivated by sexual desire.” (Cal. Gov. Code §
12940(j)(4)(c).) Moreover, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendant
Philpott subjected Plaintiff to inappropriate comments, unwelcome sexual
advances, and unwanted touching and that Defendant Comprehensive Surgical
Solutions failed to protect her from such harassment and caused her
constructive termination.[2]
(Compl. ¶¶ 8, 9.) Accordingly, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s attempts to exclude
the first, fourth and sixth causes of action from the protections of the Act.[3]

 
Therefore, the Court finds that the Agreement and the Act exclude
the instant dispute from compelled arbitration.[4]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
3.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is DENIED;
4.      Motion
requesting dismissal or stay pending arbitration is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             November
8, 2023                  __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


