  Case Number:  20STCV41299    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
8, 2023                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Pacific Attorney Group, PLC v. Fred
Panahi, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                20STCV41299

 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS ON DEFENDANT FRED PANAHI

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Kamelia Jalilvand and Jalilvand Law Corporation
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of 11/01/23
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      
An
Order quashing service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction over
Defendant Fred Panahi.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      
Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On October 28, 2020, Plaintiff Pacific Attorney Group
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants Fred Panahi, Kamelia Jalilvand, and Jalilvand Law Corporation
with ten causes of action for: 
1.      Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; 
2.      Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; 
3.      Fraud; 
4.      Conversion; 
5.      Breach of Written Contract; 
6.      Unjust Enrichment; 
7.      Declaratory Relief; 
8.      Accounting; 
9.      Constructive Trust; 
10.  Money Had and Received. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Panahi retained their
office to represent him in a personal injury matter on a contingency fee basis.
Plaintiff alleges that they were entitled to one-third of the gross amount
recovered from any source in connection with the claim or, if Defendant Panahi
terminated their services, to pay the value of their services from any recovery
in connection with the claim. Defendant Panahi terminated Plaintiff’s
representation and retained Defendants Jalilvand and Jalilvand Law Corporation. Plaintiff alleges to have informed Jalilvand Defendants of
their attorney lien. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants refused to confirm the
true settlement amount, refused to share the settlement agreement, and refused
to honor the attorney lien.  
 
On December 17, 2020, Defendants Kamelia Jalilvand and Jalilvand Law Corporation
(Moving Defendants) filed a Special Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.16.
Plaintiff opposed this motion.  
 
On January 29, 2021, the court denied the Special Motion to
Strike as to the Seventh Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief and granted the
Special Motion to Strike as to the remaining causes of action. Moving
Defendants appealed, seeking to strike the Seventh Cause of Action, too. 
 
On June 15, 2023, the Court of Appeal issued a remittitur
which affirmed the trial court’s ruling on the Special Motion to Strike.  
 
On September 25, 2023, Defendants Jalilvand and Jalilvand
Law Corporation (Jalilvand Defendants) filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike. The
court SUSTAINED the Demurrer on October 31, 2023 and DENIED the Motion to
Strike as moot. No parties attended the hearing.
 
On September 26, 2023, Jalilvand Defendants filed a Motion
to Quash Service of Summons filed on March 2, 2021 as to Defendant Fred Panahi
(Panahi). Plaintiff’s opposition was due on or before October 26, 2023. No
opposition filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more
of the following purposes: To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., (CCP) § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1).)¿ A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to
file a responsive pleading, plus an additional 10 days if substitute served.¿
(CCP § 412.20, subd. (a)(3); CCP § 415.20, subd. (b).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that the Jalilvand
Defendants are not challenging service of the summons on them, but on another
defendant, Fred Panahi.[1]
The court does not see that the Jalilvand Defendants are specially appearing on
behalf of Defendant Panahi or that Defendant Panahi otherwise makes an
appearance or brings this motion himself. The Jalilvand Defendants have cited
no authority supporting their position that they may bring this motion on
Defendant Panahi’s behalf. Indeed, CCP § 418.10(a)(1) does not provide for such
a mechanism.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Jalilvand Defendants’
motion to quash service of summons on Defendant Fred Panahi.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      
Motion
to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             November
8, 2023                  __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


